central government friday dissolved legislative assembly opposition-ruled karnataka state put state federal rule, news reports said.
federal home minister buta singh told parliament move southern state came janata dal party lost majority, reports said.
law, new state assembly must elected within year.
press trust india news agency said singh's announcement made amid protests opposition members.
janata dal, headed former defense minister v.p.
singh, held 111 222 seats house.
also supported seven independent members.
buta singh said party lost majority 19 legislators withdrew support.
said gov.
p. venkatsubbiah reccomended dissolution assembly president ramaswamy venkataraman.
pti quoted karnataka chief minister s.r.
bommai saying support 120 members house.
bommai, leader janata dal party state, said wide opposition would arise assembly dissolved, pti reported bangalore, capital karnataka.
federal government led prime minister rajiv gandhi congress party.
authorities defused two homemade bombs, one timing device, found moscow subway stations, foreign ministry spokesman said friday.
gennady i. gerasimov said first device spotted passengers subway car paveletskaya station.
``the bag seemed belong one contained plastic bag wrapped newspaper,'' said.
kgb officers subway security personnel found pipe bomb inside bag, gerasimov said.
device attached electric alarm clock wired batteries, said.
similar device, without clock, discovered hour later vdnkh metro station, spokesman said.
``both episodes appear linked,'' gerasimov said.
``the kgb begun investigation.''
responding demands parliament curbs press intrusions private lives, mainly britain's racy tabloid newspapers, government friday announced independent review panel told editors ``to clean act.''
home office minister timothy renton said panel would report within year.
``editors publishers national press country probation,'' renton told house commons.
``they year two clean act.''
british media freedom, meanwhile, came unprecedented scrutiny international conference friday, spurred charges prime minister margaret thatcher's government undermined public's right know.
announcement parliament came group editors, publishers, broadcast executives journalists debated news media freedom one-day seminar sponsored international press institute.
watchdog body, membership 2,000 publishers editors 60 countries, normally focuses attention government harassment newspapers journalists third world countries.
political charges conservative party government undermined press freedom, complaints excesses mass circulation newspapers two big issues growing controversy news media britain.
political front, editors cite government ban broadcast interviews irish republican army, far-reaching official secrets laws three-year court battle government attempts block publication ``spycatcher,'' retired intelligence agent's memoirs.
newspapers increasingly criticized sensational stories boost circulations major tabloids, sell million copies day.
``what disturbing fact government get away without public caring,'' said max hastings, editor london's pro-conservative daily telegraph.
``the british public disenchanted press.
chief issue raise standards british public care press.''
renton announced press review panel ``right reply'' bill foundered friday commons lack government backing.
bill, put forward rank-and-file legislator, tony worthington, sought empower government force newspapers publish corrections errors.
bill attracted considerable support government opposition legislators, renton rejected grounds ``it would introduce measure government control press.''
supporters accused tabloids one called ``replacing journalism voyeurism.''
``the reporter's profession infiltrated seedy stream rent boys, pimps, bimbos, spurned lovers, smear artists grudges, prostitutes perjurers,'' said jonathan aitken, rank-and-file conservative party legislator.
``this cast shame.''
apart racy stories private lives people tv stars accident victims, tabloids regularly incur wrath buckingham palace pursuit royal family.
seminar, american participant, dana bullen, director washington-based world press freedom committee, contrasted british american treatment news media.
``where official secrets act here, freedom information act,'' said bullen.
andrew neil, editor london's sunday times, top-selling upmarket weekly britain, led complaints editors broadcast chiefs government use court orders.
controversy ``spycatcher,'' national newsapers barred stage orders, called ``prior restraints,'' publishing.
``there culture country freedom press ... government judges belong club,'' said neil, referring british establishment.
``we must freedom publish take consequences.''
series disputes since mrs. thatcher power 1979, government also clashed television networks, usually features documentaries involving outlawed irish republican army intelligence services.
also, media civil rights groups charge bill reform catchall 1911 official secrets act inadequate.
one example cite government's refusal allow civil servants leak classfied information argue acted national interest expose government cover-up.
earlier friday, british delegate meeting 35 nations monitor recent east-west accord media freedom said attitude mrs. thatcher's government toward media ``alarms us.''
neal acherson, columnist observer, liberal london weekly, said british government tradition organized unattributable briefings officials domestic political correspondents conflicted east-west accord.
accord signed last january 35 nations end conference european security cooperation vienna.
names dissident priest gleb yakunin four announced candidates removed friday ballot new soviet parliament, colleague reported.
yakunin, russian orthodox priest, four blocked ballot central district moscow grounds didn't live work district, said victor popkov, christian activist attended district meeting zil car factory.
soviet election laws residency requirements.
many already elected new congress people's deputies selected organizations belong districts reside.
popkov said 750 electors district meeting, said picked ``in crude move part top echelon'' communist party.
said head central election commission agreed meet saturday yakunin rejected candidates hear complaints.
none five allowed present platform meeting election commission member present count votes, popkov said telephone interview.
yakunin suspended religious duties 20 years imprisoned dissident activities.
six years prison exile siberia released march 1987 assigned small parish near moscow.
popov said four rejected candidates two writers, criminal investigator military officer.
names 11 candidates placed district ballot.
group 120 refugees put jetliner returned el salvador latest mass deportation illegal aliens u.s. immigration naturalization service.
flight ins-chartered boeing 737 fifth flight since feb. 21, ins began crackdown undocumented aliens crossing rio grande.
previous charter flight 231 aliens left texas march 13 believed largest mass deportation ins.
1,300 central americans deported since crackdown began.
refugees _ smiling, sulking _ processed ins detention camp near bayview filed four buses bound brownsville-south padre island international airport.
nicaraguans flight, although quarter 1,250 detainees camp nicaragua.
nicaraguans nationality escaped crackdown, thanks directive issued then-attorney general edwin meese iii, july 1987.
meese requested ins encourage asylum applications work authorizations refugees fleeing leftist nicaraguan government.
deportation nicaraguans must approved ins headquarters washington, d.c.
among immigrants deported thursday 68 salvadorans, 38 guatemalans 14 hondurans.
ins said 703 refugees applied asylum harlingen district since feb. 21.
applicants, 72 nicaraguans six salvadorans granted asylum.
rest detained sent back homelands.
president bush reportedly planning recommend mix single-warhead midgetman multiple warhead mx missiles budget decision determine future nation's nuclear arsenal.
white house source, declined identified, said friday bush's decision ``expected kind mix rail garrison mx midgetman, final mix determined.''
decision represents setback defense secretary dick cheney, reportedly favored deploying one mobile missile, 10-warhead mx.
bush supposed make final decision weekend inform cheney.
cheney urged bush remove nation's 50 mx missiles concrete silos put railroad cars shuttled around country _ option known rail garrison mx.
reportedly wanted cut funding truck-mobile midgetman.
decision missiles one several must made cheney tries cut $10 billion pentagon budget.
according congressional pentagon sources, star wars b-2 stealth bomber face budget ax cheney announces choices congressional hearing tuesday.
cheney plans scale back work b-2, recent estimates $500 million per plane expensive aircraft history, cutting funding star wars.
details proposal b-2 immediately available, sources, requested anonymity, said friday.
star wars, strategic defense initiative, would cut $4.8 billion department energy fiscal 1990.
former president reagan, made star wars top priority, asked $5.9 billion fiscal 1990 $7 billion 1991, sharp increase $4.5 billion allocated program year.
total defense budget stands $299.2 billion _ $10 billion less budget former president reagan submitted january accordance cut agreed upon week ago white house congress.
defense secretary discussed shrinking military budget pentagon meeting chairmen ranking members senate house armed services committees leaders house appropriations defense subcommittee.
cheney's plan calls elimination funding marine corps' v-22 osprey troop transport aircraft, retirement one two aging aircraft carriers _ coral sea midway _ abraham lincoln commissioned 1990.
retirement would maintain navy carrier force 14 instead 15 sought reagan.
defense secretary also planning shift 24 frigates reserve status cancel $1.4 billion procurement f-14d tomcat fighter jets.
cheney also retained reagan's plan eliminate funding last two submarines los angeles class, ssn688, favor newer class ssn21.
addition, cheney plans mothball handful b-52s; delay millstar program, air force's communications satellite program; cancel army helicopter improvement program.
reagan proposed spending $210 million 1990 millstar $299 million ahip.
buys blackhawk uh-60a would reduced 83 72 purchases f-15e would reduced zero.
program earmarked $1.7 billion fiscal 1990 budget.
army force structure would reduced 5 percent cuts number people employed headquarters procurement.
attending meeting cheney sam nunn, d-ga., chairman senate armed services committee; john warner virginia, ranking republican panel; rep. les aspin, d-wis., chairman house armed services committee; rep. bill dickinson alabama, ranking republican panel; rep. john murtha, d-pa.; rep. joseph mcdade, r-pa., chairman ranking member house appropriations defense subcommittee.
first half fiscal 1989 ended budget deficit running 7.4 percent ahead last year's, according government's latest report financial situation.
first six months 1989 fiscal year, began oct. 1, budget deficit totaled $128.43 billion, $119.61 billion shortfall posted first six months last year, treasury department said friday.
bush administration estimating year's deficit total $163.3 billion, 5.3 percent $155.1 billion shortfall posted fiscal 1988.
gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law, year's deficit supposed exceed $146 billion.
administration congressional leaders last week unveiled compromise plan designed reduce deficit next fiscal year $99.4 billion, within $100 billion target fiscal 1990 established gramm-rudman.
march, government posted $35.78 billion deficit, 22.2 percent month last year highest monthly shortfall since may 1986.
revenues last month 3.9 percent march 1988 $68.28 billion, spending $104.06 billion 9.5 percent.
economist louis crandall r.h. wrightson &amp; associates new york said last month's deficit surge largely due technical factors related timing government payments tax refunds veterans' disability benefits.
said checks totaling $5 billion tax refunds $2.5 billion benefits normally would gone april mailed end march, artificially inflating monthly deficit figure.
``if take technical factors, last month right top last year's number,'' crandall said.
``this points toward annual deficit $145 billion range, would better last year better people currently expecting.''
economist paul denoon manufacturers hanover trust co. new york said even setting aside special factors inflated march's shortfall, expects deficit year range $160 billion $165 billion.
``clearly, it's well last year,'' said.
denoon said much worsening deficit far year linked government payments help shore troubled savings loan industry.
analysts say deficit also increased higher-than-expected interest rates far year.
federal reserve board year pushing interest rates effort slow economic growth thus restrain inflation.
largest government spending category last month military.
defense spending march totaled $28.9 billion reached $148 billion first half fiscal year, 4 percent period previous year.
spending social security last month totaled $19.5 billion reached $111.1 billion first six months fiscal 1989, 5.8 percent ahead year earlier.
interest national debt totaled $16.5 billion last month $117 billion far year, 11.2 percent year earlier.
health human services programs social security cost $16 billion march $82.8 billion far fiscal year, 6.9 percent previous year.
spending agriculture department last month $3.8 billion totaled $28.6 billion first half year, 9.7 percent year earlier.
third first-grade boys rural north carolina tried smokeless tobacco, number increases 70 percent seventh-grade, study shows.
recent university north carolina asheville study found frequently stated reason using smokeless tobacco taste, followed peer pressure, desire feel ``grown up'' influence role models athletes.
study used children grades one, three, five seven urban rural schools western north carolina.
``it apparent administration questionnaire first-graders clearly understood oral tobacco was,'' said cheryl mcclary, co-author study.
``in two rural schools, several little boys immediately jumped show containers chewing tobacco, kept back pocket.''
state law allows 6-year-old buy use smokeless tobacco prohibits sale cigarettes cigarette papers anyone 17.
relatives americans killed bombing pan flight 103 say encouraged recent government response aviation security problems still want broad investigation incident.
transportation secretary samuel skinner friday announced rejection calls independent commission look dec. 21 bombing.
took europe meet transportation officials five countries, bert ammerman, spokesman relatives nearly 200 americans killed explosion lockerbie, scotland, expressed disappointment decision, saying, ``we feel there's enough information that's uncovered independent investigation deal appropriately.''
ammerman's brother, tom, killed bombing.
among concerns relatives lack public warning threats flight, security procedures failed detect plastic explosive authorities say believed planted terrorists, inadequate government response incident.
ammerman, demarest, n.j., said, however, several positive developments since relatives staged rally met bush officials washington april 3, including steps improve aviation security.
said state department agreed escort relatives want visit lockerbie.
skinner meeting naples, italy, weekend administration's nominee head federal aviation administration, adm. james b. busey, u.s. navy commander europe, next week government airline officials italy, west germany, switzerland, france england.
skinner, news conference foreign journalists covering washington, said would push security initiatives would ``encourage international travelers retain justified confidence system's safety.''
skinner said u.s. carriers given ``unbelievable attention'' security safest world.
spokesman, david prosperi, said skinner transportation security officials flying way government plane meet tight schedule would likely make least part trip aboard commercial airliners.
skinner, letter ammerman rejecting call separate investigation, said, ``for variety reasons, believe formation independent commission necessary prudent.''
letter accompanied five-page outline administration action since pan explosion.
skinner said confidence investigation scottish west german authorities fbi believed responsible planting bomb, investigators said hidden radio-cassette, apprehended prosecuted.
``i assure opinion investigation moving full speed,'' skinner said.
``i think eventually hopefully distant future, public know full story there.''
said important disclose targets investigation information sought.
skinner said trip would review screening given foreign nationals hired u.s. airlines abroad seek diplomatic approval installation devices detect plastic explosives airports used u.s. carriers abroad.
president bush continue economic sanctions nicaragua imposed may 1985 former president reagan.
bush said friday letter house speaker jim wright trade embargo continue ``as long measures appropriate,'' also suggested sanctions could lifted free elections held february nicaragua.
``the trade sanctions essential element policy seeks democratic outcome nicaragua diplomatic means,'' bush said letter.
``the policies actions government nicaragua continue pose unusual extraordinary threat national security foreign policy united states,'' said.
ban covers imports nicaraguan goods united states exports u.s. firms nicaragua _ except goods destined contra rebels fought eight years overthrow country's sandinista government.
presidential order also prohibits air ship traffic two countries.
bush's order came group members congress, democrats republicans, sent telegram nicaraguan president daniel ortega friday, criticizing law nicaragua adopted week govern elections scheduled next february.
telegram, sent group led rep. frank guarini, d-n.j., said law ``biased, unfair designed monopolize power rather seek national reconciliation.''
aide one sponsors provided copy.
calls ortega meet jointly political opposition leaders come new election law comply peace plans adopted presidents four central american democracies ortega esquipulas, guatemala, 1987 tesoro beach, el salvador, year.
bush administration also expressed strong displeasure new election law, contending gives sandinista government candidates unfair advantage.
state department said sandinistas dominate electoral council run elections.
internal opposition parties contra rebels also strongly criticized new law.
administration source, commented condition named, said administration particularly displeased ortega meet jointly opposition leaders work agreeable election plan, instead meeting one time pushing sandinista proposal, complaint also made congress members sent telegram.
``if nicaragua implements esquipulas commitments holds free, fair honest elections, believe emergency prompted prior administration impose trade sanctions would largely resolved,'' bush wrote.
bush's letter reviewed trade situation nicaragua since last administration report nov. 9.
signing congressional telegram include reps. john spratt, d-s.c.; rod chandler, r-wash.; dave mccurdy, d-okla.; tom carper, d-del.
; ike skelton, d-mo.
; james slattery, d-kan.; roy rowland, d-ga.; steve gunderson, r-wis.; john miller, r-wash.; beverly byron, d-md., robert lagomarsino, r-calif.
american telephone &amp; telegraph co. seeking court permission enter complex computer data, videotex, financial information services known electronic publishing.
brief filed friday u.s. district judge harold greene said leading firms electronic publishing industry ``are large, financially strong corporations'' could withstand competition at&amp;t. at&amp;t also said companies at&amp;t, mci communications corp. us sprint, deliver data electronic publishers.
court order breaking old bell system banned at&amp;t electronic publishing, at&amp;t brief said 1982 greene stated intended lift ban seven years.
greene said burden seven years would opponents removal ``to show competitive conditions clearly require maintenance ban,'' at&amp;t's filing said.
at&amp;t spokesman herb linnen said leading firms include knight-ridder (online database services), citicorp, dow jones reuters (securities quotations financial information), dun &amp; bradstreet trw (credit data) general electric ibm sears (videotex services).
linnen said at&amp;t current plans enter electronic yellow pages television businesses _ two areas special concern seven regional bell telephone companies spun at&amp;t 1984 broadcast cable tv industries.
``we specific business plan mind,'' linnen said.
``we current plans provide services via yellow pages, (court filing) motivated current plan get television.''
company said ``there `means at&amp;t's network transmission messages electronic publishers,' firms providing electronic publishing services unquestionably `sufficient strength permit compete.'''
citing mci sprint, said ``it beyond serious dispute carriers offer ample alternatives at&amp;t interexchange transmission services used electronic publishers.''
mci officials immediately return calls comment.
bill mccloskey, spokesman one seven regional bell companies, bellsouth, said company officials seen filing could comment.
robert l. smith jr., executive director videotex industry association, said at&amp;t could ``potentially important participant'' electronic publishing, ``and think probably one area watch use opportunity get electronic yellow pages.''
noting regional bell companies banned area, said ``vacuum'' existed there.
greene's breakup order, modified, defines electronic publishing owning, originating, compiling editing information content transported at&amp;t's facilities.
1987, greene gave regional bell companies permission transmit originate information services, which, besides electronic publishing, also include data processing related computer services.
health human services secretary louis w. sullivan gave approval friday plan federal scientists wipe tuberculosis united states year 2010.
``i challenge cdc carry strategies necessary accomplish goal,'' sullivan said speech employees centers disease control.
contagious lung disease attacked 22,000 americans last year.
tb cured cases drug therapy, become growing public health problem recent years, part spread aids _ weakens immune system, allowing tb, among diseases, develop.
scientists estimate 10 million americans infected tb bacteria, vast majority never get disease.
advisory committee elimination tuberculosis, created department health human services 1987, calls effective use existing prevention control programs, development new diagnosis treatment techniques, rapid transfer new technology widespread medical use.
sullivan, president atlanta's morehouse school medicine appointed secretary hhs president bush, also visited new national headquarters american cancer society, across street cdc compound.
firefighters quelled brush fire erupted friday 1,200 acres pike national forest forced evacuation 200 homes scattered subdivisions near colorado's foothils, authorities said.
reports injuries damage houses, said craig a. coultas, spokesman woodmoor-monument fire protection district.
175 firefighters 20 agencies converged area 20 miles north colorado springs blaze broke shortly noon mount herman estates, unincorporated el paso county, said.
``we control 20 30 spot fires within perimeter,'' said.
saturday, said firefighters would overhaul fire finish job.
cause blaze unknown, said.
coultas said structures three subdivisions evacuated front fire burning grass, brush, scrub oak pines.
``the terrain given us fits anything else,'' coultas said.
``fire tends move it's following contours land, moving side mountain.''
air tanker dropping fire retardant periphery blaze helicopters pulling water monument lake drop fire.
another air tanker en route arkansas join fire fighting.
officials said rough terrain also preventing workers bringing bulldozers build fire lines, axes small hoses used.
el paso county sheriff's spokesmen predicted would take three four days quench fire.
national weather service said colorado's rangeland fire danger ``extreme'' record high temperatures reported friday eastern colorado fire danger high mountains.
united states must pressure syria stop shelling killed hundreds beirut made life survivors virtually unlivable, according 2,000 lebanese demonstrated across white house.
``it's total breakdown everything,'' said may rihani, washington d.c. consultant visited family beirut september.
``no work, school, electricity.''
``it's unbearable, unpredictable, unlivable'' since syrian forces began bombarding beirut's christian enclave early march, said samuel ibrahim, lebanese-born chicago businessman also relatives living there.
``it's inhumane shell ... peaceful, innocent people,'' said.
demonstrators came washington friday across united states canada, organized variety pro-lebanese groups.
marching lafayette park across street white house, carried signs sang lebanese national anthem amid chants ``president bush, save lebanon.''
international movement liberation lebanon, organizer demonstration, said letter bush disappointed statement secretary state james a. baker earlier week united states little present help lebanon.
bush told reporters thursday wished ``some dramatic plan'' stop violence.
``the problem _ short-run _ stop firing, shelling, get factions stop warring, certainly recent times defied solution,'' bush said.
``but can't give it.''
several demonstrators suggested united states could use diplomatic economic pressure effort force syria withdraw 40,000 troops country.
least 270 people, mainly civilians, killed nearly 1,000 wounded shelling since march 8.
150,000 christians moslems fled beirut fear fighting due shortages food fuel.
elia sarkis, boston businessman brought 11-year-old son demonstration, said believes syria withdrew, warring lebanese religious ethnic factions would find way form workable government.
``a federation religious, ethnic communities ... that's ideal new lebanon we're looking for,'' sarkis said.
senate armed services committee hold hearings explosion aboard uss iowa killed 47 seamen.
sens.
sam nunn, d-ga., chairman, ranking republican, john warner virginia, said friday hearings begin navy's board inquiry completes probe accident.
hearings focus safety procedures used past, whether changes procedures necessary possible conditions imposed continued use 16-inch weapons found iowa battleship, senators said joint statement.
active-duty strength nation's armed forces dropped slightly last month.
all, army, navy, marine corps air force reported 2,116,889 men women active duty march 31, 2,122,636 feb. 28, according pentagon figures released friday.
year ago, march 31, 1988, pentagon reported 2,141,757 men women uniform.
reduction ordered early 1988 reagan administration.
reductions made changes recruiting goals, tighter re-enlistment standards ``early out'' incentives.
president bush awarded congressional medal philanthropist mary lasker, honoring longtime support research education areas cancer, heart disease cerebral palsy.
bush, rose garden presentation ceremony friday, told mrs. lasker example means speaks ``1,000 points light'' many components society work improve life everyone.
mrs. lasker husband 1942 founded albert mary lasker foundation encourage medical research public awareness crippling diseases.
urged president beef support national institutes health, mary w. lasker center health research education conducts medical research.
``cancer still kills 500,000 people year country, people killed wars combined,'' said.
former labor secretary raymond donovan asking appeals court panel order federal government pay $112,281 legal bills says incurred investigation alleged kickback supposedly paid donovan 1977.
donovan lawyers say legal fees expenses period march 1987 october 1987 connection probe independent counsel leon silverman.
federal law independent counsels provides government pay legal fees subject criminal investigation isn't indicted.
donovan cleared probe accusations lied denied knowing anything alleged kickback scheme involved former supplier schiavone construction co. donovan working time.
rape beating jogger reinforced reputation central park criminals, city officials say unfair stereotype america's famous urban park.
``generally, crime park low.
safe jog central park,'' said police chief detectives robert colangelo wednesday night attack marauding gang teen-agers left 28-year-old woman near death.
``there's danger jogging anywhere,'' colangelo said.
``but don't feel it's inordinately dangerous here.''
park's reputation illegal activity reinforced recent years several highly publicized incidents: jennifer levin's 1986 strangling ``preppie killer'' robert chambers, shooting month earlier left police officer, steven mcdonald, paralyzed, 1983 free concert diana ross drew packs thieves.
victim latest attack, investment banker, remained unconscious life-support systems friday metropolitan hospital, said hospital spokeswoman aura retamoso.
woman lost roughly three-quarters body's blood attack, suffered fractured skull, severe head lacerations, brain contusions, fractured facial bones bruises head toe assault dozen teens, said dr. robert s. kurtz, assistant chief surgery hospital.
kurtz said friday pulse rate ``went way up'' mother spoke her.
``so level she's processing information today wasn't yesterday,'' said.
said next four days crucial health, added ``she fighting chance making full recovery.''
seven teen-agers arrested friday charged attempted murder, rape assault attack.
police said additional arrests expected.
colangelo said woman attacked members group 32 teens went park wednesday night ``raise hell, attack joggers, steal bicycles.''
within 10 minutes, assaulted three men, including jogger homeless man.
later split three groups spotting police cruiser terrorized least nine people two-hour period.
colangelo said youths told investigators crime spree resulted pastime called ``wilding.''
``it's term police heard before,'' chief said.
``they said, `we going wilding.'
mind point, implies going go raise hell.''
``central park focus national attention.
every incident happens news _ especially it's grisly,'' parks commissioner henry stern said friday.
last year, police reports 51 assaults 13 rapes park, compared 71,030 assaults 3,412 rapes citywide.
last year's attacks park, dozen involved joggers; 1987, 13 joggers assaulted park.
rape wednesday third rape reported year central park, police said.
officials say crime reports park low area larger country monaco.
busy day, hundreds thousands people pass park.
officials acknowledge park dangers dark.
``it's safer use day,'' stern said.
said, ``people shouldn't give park would give air travel plane crash.''
fred lebow, head new york road runners club, tells evening joggers avoid northern area park, wednesday attack occurred.
area, bordering harlem, rugged terrain hiding places criminals.
lebow's warning based history: one group's members raped almost spot jogging park five years ago.
mayor edward i. koch also sounded warning friday jogging: ``if parts town, you're endangering physical well-being, maybe occasionally even life.''
sailor injured missiles ripped uss stark patrolled persian gulf says $7,500 government trying get compensation insulting.
``all $7,500?''
said bill mcleod, spent 11 hours gulf nursing injuries fighting sharks following may 1987 attack.
``i'm starting wonder worth it,'' said.
``it'd better far compensation goes go get car wreck.''
mcleod heard last month iraqi government agreed pay $27.35 million families 37 navy sailors killed aboard stark, thought would compensated one 22 sailors injured.
mcleod received letter state department thursday said united states would seek $7,500 injuries iraqis.
state department would comment total amount sought injured sailors.
mcleod sailors injured two exocet missiles fired iraqi warplane hit stark may 1987.
three sailors thrown ship blast.
mcleod, awarded purple heart, spent two weeks wheelchair returning light duty.
``i think it's ripoff.
it's insult,'' said.
mcleod wife rosa ``were thinking $30,000 $40,000 would right.''
state department letter invites mcleod submit additional information believes claim unjust.
mcleod left navy enlistment expired november 1987.
navy paid hospital bills plus $3,200 personal items lost ship.
burmese comedian actor satirized military shortly seized power released almost seven months imprisonment, authorities said today.
comedian, zargana, actor, zin waing, freed insein jail rangoon friday.
zargana, zin waing, four actors directors arrested oct. 2 never publicly accused wrongdoing.
others freed earlier.
zargana said telephone interview today kept solitary confinement otherwise mistreated.
``the authorities explained us yesterday military step sept. 18,'' zargana said.
``we promise avoid acts tend cause misunderstanding army public.''
armed forces commander gen.
saw maung seized power coup day country's first civilian president 26 years.
general's troops killed hundreds people crushing nationwide street demonstrations democracy.
johnny carson no.
1 star television's first 50 years undisputed ``top gun'' talk shows, according people magazine.
trailing carson opinion magazine's editorial staff lucille ball, jackie gleason, walter cronkite sid caesar.
magazine publish list next week's edition celebrating half century television.
magazine echoed ratings shown decades, calling carson ``champion chatter,'' incomparable monologue artist ``night watchman global village.''
26 years host ``the tonight show,'' magazine said carson interviewed 20,000 guests told 700,000 jokes weekly audience 75 million people.
jacqueline kennedy onassis ``like hungry vulture'' subject money came funeral second husband, aristotle onassis, according new book quoted late christina onassis.
``a woman named jackie,'' unauthorized biography written c. david heymann, details former first lady's spending sprees said money discussed onassis' funeral 1975.
book serialized weekly star, supermarket tabloid.
mrs. onassis' brother-in-law, sen. edward kennedy, rode funeral limousine christina onassis, aristotle's daughter.
christina, since died, told heymann kennedy turned said, ``now, it's time take care jackie,'' star reported monday edition.
``it seemed almost inconceivable ted kennedy would choose moment discuss financial matters,'' said christina.
``but jackie's hyena-like smile drove car.
like hungry vulture waiting feast father's flesh.''
book also says onassis plotted photographers publish candid, nude photographs wife would stop complaining tamer shots taken papparazzi.
nancy tuckerman, spokeswoman mrs. onassis, said first part series appeared last week former first lady would comment.
lucille ball continued recover quickly heart surgery earlier week, cheered flood flowers, phone calls faxes.
``she's going uncomfortable days, she's making significant progress,'' said ron wise, spokesman cedars-sinai medical center.
77-year-old, zany redhead remained serious condition friday, three days receiving transplanted piece critical heart artery.
hospital received ``tidal wave'' greeting cards, facsimile machine churning messages virtually nonstop emmy award-winning actress, according wise, delivered hundreds miss ball's husband, gary morton.
actor tony randall says $100,000 gift eagle snacks inc. isn't peanuts: plans use money turn rundown movie house home classical repertory group.
``it take lot work lot money, think donation eagle snacks help stimulate participation need bring great theater back 42nd street,'' randall said friday.
randall said plans buy theater part city plan restore seamy stretch 42nd street performing arts complex.
spokesman eagle snacks, subsidiary anheuser-busch co.
princess beatrice york displayed royal talents crowd pleasing waited excitedly edinburgh dockside father's destroyer.
little prompting mother, duchess york, 8-month-old princess waved arms flung bare legs action friday, wiggling mother's arms.
duchess, former sarah ferguson, stood daughter 20 relatives men serving hms edinburgh.
walked gangplank destroyer docked visit duke york, prince andrew.
later, andrew carried still-waving beatrice back gangplank.
``star wars'' ad wars: george lucas' special effects company begun making commercials small screen.
lucasfilm ltd. announced friday formed advertising division tap expertise went movies ``star wars'' series fantasy ``willow.''
first project currently way england series four spots touting bell atlantic, regional telephone company, said peter friedman, heading lucasfilm commercial productions.
advertisements combine computer graphics, animation live action _ ``a technique that's never used before,'' friedman said.
operation use resources industrial light &amp; magic, computer graphics division lucasfilm.
baseball slugger jose canseco, february ticketed driving car 120 mph florida, charged felony possession loaded semiautomatic handgun.
canseco ``totally cooperative'' arrested friday university california's laurel heights campus returning car medical exam, said campus police lt. mark kurtz.
passerby noticed weapon floor canseco's parked jaguar, said.
canseco released several hours wife, esther, posted $5,000 bail.
arraigned three weeks.
kurtz said police could find permit file allowing canseco carry weapon continuing investigate.
24-year-old right fielder went oakland coliseum later friday suited game california angels.
sidelined injured left wrist.
winning weekly state lottery numbers picked friday:
lotto: 02; 10; 17; 24; 32; 35.
winning weekly state lottery numbers picked far week:
lotto: 02; 10; 17; 24; 32; 35.
play 4: 1-0-4-4.
wednesday megabucks: 01; 09; 13; 23; 31; 32.
pick 6 lotto: 02; 05; 11; 19; 36; 46.
bonus: 67324.
wednesday lotto 54 game: 03; 12; 26; 29; 44; 49.
supplementary 35.
big 4 lottery: 2-4-5-3.
grand lot game: 2-3-2; 7-0-2-8; 3-2-9-5-8; 3-8-6-5-2-9.
school principal prevented seventh-grader displaying anti-abortion science project, consisted 10 jars human fetuses, saying award-winning exhibit much students.
carrie walker placed jars, contained fetuses pregnancy stages ranging 6 weeks 5{ months, exhibit table thursday pi beta phi elementary school, said principal al cardiel.
``to untrained eye, (fetus) 5{ months along definitely child,'' said jim wade, curriculum director sevier county schools.
girl said got fetuses, kept preservative solutions, uncle, pathologist.
girl's mother said fetuses came miscarriages.
cardiel said learned exhibit early morning students setting projects school's annual science fair, year theme ``life science.''
``the project inappropriate age group here,'' cardiel said.
said first conferred carrie's mother, donna walker, teaches art school.
project removed fair graded given blue ribbon classes chance view it, said sevier county school superintendent jack parton.
parton said agreed cardiel schoolchildren young understand ideas points behind exhibit.
parton also said recent, nationwide political debate abortion played part principal's decision yank display fair.
school located gatlinburg, east tennessee resort town 3,000 people.
430 students kindergarten eighth grade attend school.
transition jose napoleon duarte's christian democratic government alfredo cristiani's rightist administration going smoothly.
assassinations, bombings, death-squad style murders mass roundups leftists disturbed political climate roiled nine years civil war.
marxist-led guerrillas vowed make country ``ungovernable'' june 1, cristiani takes office.
41-year-old leader rightist republican nationalist alliance, arena, handily defeated centrist christian democratic candidate last month's presidential election.
arena u.s. officials blamed rebel farabundo marti national liberation front, fmln, three recent assassinations rightists bomb attack home vice-president-elect.
attorney general roberto garcia alvarado slain wednesday bomb placed roof car stopped traffic light.
targeting high-profile individuals _ tactic routinely employed guerrillas past _ appears designed provoke undermine cristiani.
remain unclear.
guerrillas neither claimed denied responsibility killing garcia.
did, however, deny responsibility april 14 bombing vice president-elect francisco merino's house.
cristiani u.s.
ambassador william walker blamed recent wave violence guerrillas determined provoke harsh, repressive response security forces.
according view, guerrilla sympathizers united states europe would point surge rights abuse reason cutoff u.s. aid.
el salvador receives $1.5 million day u.s. economic military assistance _ country western hemisphere.
still-active arena leaders linked death squads early 1980s killed thousands suspected leftists.
insurgents continue refer arena ``the death-squad party.''
arena denies charge cristiani says eight-year-old organization evolved modern, conservative party similar u.s.'s republican party.
arena continues harbor far-right wing.
whether cristiani faction relatively moderate modern capitalists wins oligarchic fascist-minded elements remains seen.
``an extremist sector right hopes subjugate cristiani impose hard military political line,'' ignacio ellacuria, rector prestigious jesuit-run central american university, said friday.
left-leaning unions ``popular organizations'' condemned say increase repression recent weeks.
elementary school teacher cristina gomez abducted school, tortured killed april 5 heavily armed men civilian clothes acting broad daylight, apparently confident would challenged security forces.
police army troops wednesday thursday raided union headquarters, headquarters displaced person's group offices women's association.
70 people arrested.
``the escalation repression demonstrates desperation felt rich powerful.
they're starting feel effect war see riches danger,'' said tomasa ruiz, member directorate raided refugee center.
``so declare war people.''
cristiani said government act resolutely, within law, ensure law order.
defense minister gen. eugenio vides casanova, met thursday lawmakers discuss possible legislation combat organizations considered guerrilla fronts military, said believe current level violence requires imposition state siege.
doug mine, based san salvador since last year, reported extensively associated press central america.
soviet skimmer swung action friday collected oil number fishing boats waged own, low-tech fight america's worst oil spill.
425-foot vaidogubsky plied rough seas kenai peninsula, kelly duncan shook head disgust 53-foot fishing vessel holds full oil sucked resurrection bay.
``i got evidence oil spill could want right here,'' said duncan, 29, kasilof.
``it's death destruction.
people look makes sick.''
duncan's boat, sea quest, docked contamination zone seward's small boat harbor state coast guard officials debated 7,500 gallons duncan said sucked 16 hours thursday.
soviet skimmer spent thursday testing equipment steamed gore point large pools oil gathered.
coast guard spokeswoman kathleen donohoe said soviet skimmer begin retrieving first oil today.
total 48 skimmers, 36-foot 42-foot range, working stretches oil floating prince william sound gulf alaska.
heaviest concentrations sound, gore point kenai peninsula west side kodiak island.
local fishermen pulling boats oil contained plastic booms, dipping crude scoops buckets stacking buckets sterns boats.
coast guard petty officer brad smith said delays unloading oil widespread slowing progress cleaning oil.
declined comment whether barges needed referred question exxon.
rick coleman, spokesman oil company valdez, said four barges prince william sound another near seward combined capacity almost 8 million gallons.
another barge join them, said.
another exxon spokesman, henry beathard, acknowledged long delays loading recovered oil skimmers onto barges.
blamed thick consistency recovered oil, likened taffy.
exxon also attack environmentalists upset oil company's reluctance open sea otter treatment center seward.
u.s.
fish wildlife service said friday written exxon strongly re-emphasizing need second treatment center addition one valdez.
spokesman bruce batten said agency first asked center april 7, asked completed sunday.
``we're really position order it, finally felt compelled put writing,'' said.
batten said service expanding effort rescue oil-coated otters outer coast kenai peninsula.
center marine conservation estimated 200 oiled sea otters found along southern shoreline peninsula fishermen.
altogether, fish wildlife service observed 3,406 dead shore birds, 409 dead sea otters four dead bald eagles.
``the devastation yet come exxon valdez spill could enormous,'' said roger mcmanus, president washington, d.c.-based environmental group pressed second otter center.
exxon valdez rammed bligh reef march 24 spilled 10.1 million gallons oil loaded valdez, southern terminus alaska pipeline.
delays responding spill contributed spread, oil seeped sound gulf alaska moved southwest kenai fjords national park.
ecologically sensitive region home large populations marine mammals seabirds.
biologists say thousands birds hundreds sea otters died, although exact figure unobtainable.
oil continued spread southwest friday kodiak island beyond, said pete mcgee, spill cleanup coordinator alaska department environmental conservation.
kodiak no.
1 fishing port nation well home world's largest concentration brown bears, many emerging winter hibernation.
100,000 students peacefully left tiananmen square saturday staging 15 hours protests demanding democracy end dictatorship china.
student leaders decided withdraw square 1:45 p.m. (12:45 a.m. saturday) officials reopened square ordinary crowds swelled tens thousands become increasingly unruly.
earlier students, raising fists chanting ``long live freedom,'' confronted chinese leadership filed memorial service ousted party leader hu yaobang great hall people beside square.
death hu, 73, heart attack last saturday sparked massive student protests.
students saturday afternoon marched square waving colored banners, calling democracy chanting ``arise citizens.''
traffic stopped along changan boulevard, capital's main avenue, people climbed trees get better view procession.
students said would go back campuses begin boycott.
shouted ``down dictatorship!''
again.
demonstrators filled street dividing square great hall, guarded triple line people's liberation army soldiers.
party general secretary zhao ziyang, hu's successor, delivered 10-minute address memorial service.
said hu ``worked unswervingly'' party marxist ideals 60-year revolutionary career, 4,000 mourners, led senior leader deng xiaoping members politburo, attended ceremonies.
hu's body draped red flag communist party.
mourners wore mao jackets trousers hu dressed western suit.
zhao made specific mention hu's ouster, said man ``brave enough admit mistakes insist upon thought right.
never tried hold back opinions.''
zhao praised hu's ``unusual courage resourcefulness'' redressing wrongs done intellectuals citizens radicals' 1966-76 cultural revolution.
deng xiaoping, 84, walked around casket shook hands hu's wife.
student rallies filled tiananman square since monday much larger pro-democracy demonstrations winter 1986-87 led ouster hu, outspoken reformist.
``long live democracy, long live freedom, bureaucracy, corruption!''
students chanted officials entered great hall.
students also yelled, ``severely punish strong-armed tactics!''
reference purported police beatings students clash front nearby communist party headquarters thursday morning.
chinese observers said overnight demonstration square one largest kind ever since communist victory nationalists 1949.
tens thousands students 30 universities, many bearing wreaths hu pro-democracy banners, streamed square friday midnight, 100,000 people congregated day rallies.
students gathered circles centered around wreath-laden monument revolutionary heroes sang, eulogized hu held debates democracy.
outspokenly criticized communist system.
``no one believes communism anymore,'' said one 34-year-old teacher.
``no one believes party.
party strangling china.''
ren wanding, activist short-lived 1978 democracy wall period relative tolerance democratic views, told one audience 2,000: ``people praying awakening legal system ...
historical necessity.
democracy wall lives again!''
others critized deng xiaoping holding onto power demanded premier li peng resign, saying lacked ability job.
6:15 a.m. saturday, student leader announced cheers authorities agreed let students remain square party memorial service took place great hall.
beijing government friday announced access great hall square would restricted ceremony.
students feared police soldiers would move night drive area.
``a victory us.
big victory, communist party backed down,'' said one jubilant student square.
students acknowledged, however, authorities rejected list demands presented earlier week.
included funding education, public disclosure incomes top leaders end ban unauthorized demonstrations.
students said significant demand greater press freedom, persistent theme demonstrations.
official press given little coverage demonstrations except report alleged violent acts demonstrators thursday's clash issue warnings taking advantage hu's death promote anti-government activities punished.
tiananmen square, 100-acre plaza sided forbidden city, great hall mao tse-tung's mausoleum, symbolic center china.
saturday's demonstration biggest since april 1976, death premier chou en-lai sparked huge outpouring grief anger toward leftist government.
``tiananmen incident'' set events lead overthrow leftists end 1966-76 cultural revolution.
hu widely admired students work redressing wrongs done intellectuals decade chaos.
ousted party leader january 1987 party conservatives accused soft student demonstrators trend toward ``bourgeois liberalization.''
saturday, one government worker demonstration said deng, ``our leader old.
maybe crazy.
many people hope die.''
deng remains popular market-oriented reforms brought china economic prosperity.
carried limited political reforms tolerate opposition one-party rule.
deng, believed one point chosen hu successor, approved hu's ouster pro-democracy demonstrations rocked nation december 1986 january 1987.
hundreds women wearing veils wait outside abandoned schoolhouse bags flour sugar feed families next two weeks.
children huddle close by.
clutch torn plastic bags rusting buckets carry rations home; others simply stick cupped hands.
among women children kabul affected 11-year civil war.
poorest eligible emergency rations distributed u.n relief program called operation salaam, peace.
relief workers say don't know much longer able help stockpile depleted end april.
``we make illusions even able begin handle need.
solving problem,'' said ross mountain, director united nations development program.
since february, relief workers handed 22-pound bags flour 6{-pound bags sugar, well medicine blankets, 33,500 families.
also provided fertilizer farmers hoping start planting crops fields destroyed fighting afghan forces moslem guerrillas trying oust soviet-backed government.
afghanistan self-sufficient food civil war broke following marxist coup april 1978.
fighting destroyed fields orchards forced government import 1 million tons wheat annually.
relief workers say fertilizer also gone within days.
moscow donated 175 tons wheat flour 235 tons sugar operation salaam.
development program one five u.n. organizations involved relief effort.
others aid coordinator's office, unicef, high commission refugees world food bank.
dozens soviet military transport planes descend daily capital sunrise sunset, blue-and-white aircraft carry 25 tons food supplies.
rest cargo weapons ammunition.
soviets ended nine years intervention afghanistan withdrew last troops feb. 15.
western countries withdrew afghanistan time recognize government president najib refused help it.
united states, pakistan, saudi arabia china back guerrillas, known mujahedeen.
bread lines kabul bakeries stretched blocks eased, plenty fruits vegetables markets.
food prices risen dramatically poor cannot afford them.
cost 15{ pounds flour risen 40 cents january $3.25 today.
heavy snow rebel attacks times cut two vital supply routes kabul, city 2.2 million people _ salang highway running north soviet border jalalabad highway east pakistan.
fighting government forces guerrillas closed salang highway nearly two weeks month.
1,300-truck convoy stalled 30 miles north kabul dozens containers food rotted soviet border.
convoys also trouble traveling pakistan kabul guerrilla assault jalalabad.
insurgents pounded city heavy artillery tens thousands rockets since march 6.
soviet airlift enabled government hold guerrillas, supplies less half 650 tons flour kabul needs daily.
guerrilla leaders operating pakistan originally said would take power afghanistan within weeks soviet pullout.
however, government troops managed repulse assaults jalalabad, diplomats say insurgents hope starve major cities jalalabad kabul surrendering.
honor roll student searching way protest school's dress code found something mother would think natty _ bright red pair culottes.
``they're saying can't wear shorts, girls wear skirts shorter shorts, they're indirectly discriminating guys,'' said aaron martinez, sent home thursday showed school sporting outfit.
friday, five boys joined protest going school skirts.
school officials told change clothing go home.
two went home, others changed pants went class, said principal gary blocker.
school board's student dress policy clearly states culottes _ sometimes referred ``split skirts'' _ permissible.
policy say girls wear culottes school.
``culottes girls,'' blocker said.
``the handbook doesn't say that, that's meant.
might sex discrimination, it's disruptive school.''
martinez, member baseball team captain soccer team, said feels ``more comfortable shorts jeans.
never wear long pants unless to.''
``the kids california allowed wear shorts school,'' said.
``i guess they're bunch illiterate dropouts it.''
school board scheduled public hearing next week consider changes student dress policy.
judge said jury's passion led give rock hudson's lover excessive $21.7 million landmark aids lawsuit, slashed award $5.5 million.
``it's still big award,'' said marc christian, 35, reached telephone friday superior court judge bruce geernaert's decision.
christian sued late actor's estate contending hudson told christian deadly contagious disease.
trial, christian, former bartender, testified sometimes lurid detail continued sex unwittingly hudson months actor diagnosed aids.
jury ruled february hudson guilty ``outrageous conduct'' concealing aids diagnosis christian, lover two years.
although christian contract aids tested negative presence virus, judge jury found deserved damages extreme emotional distress suffered.
christian said didn't learn star's illness months hudson, 58, died oct. 5, 1985.
``i thought dead man,'' testified terror gripped wake disclosure.
legal scholars said ruling unique personal injury law concerning sexually transmitted diseases, plaintiffs developed diseases collected damages previous cases.
separate deliberations february, jurors gave christian $14.5 million compensatory damages $7.25 million punitive damages.
judge upheld verdict said hudson's conduct ``outrageous reprehensible'' actor secretary, mark miller, agreed keep hudson's aids diagnosis secret.
30-page order issued friday, judge said, ``the court finds jury's award $14.5 million high must concluded award based part passion resulting jury's evaluation outrageous reprehensible nature conduct rock hudson defendant miller.''
``it is... clear, emotional distress issue fear contracting aids and, therefore, fear agonizing death substantial whether measured quantity quality,'' geernaert wrote.
``on hand, however serious (christian's) distress might first learned hudson's aids, emotional distress would become somewhat less time.
``furthermore, evidence plaintiff's emotional distress physically debilitating plaintiff suffered tangible economic loss,'' wrote.
christian said happy outcome still sends message aids patients inform sexual partners disease.
christian's attorney, harold rhoden, said disappointed judge's decision, said christian accepted reduction money continue court battle.
robert parker mills, attorney hudson estate, said believes clients appeal.
``there's evidence see would substantiate $5 million award man,'' said mills.
family's decision feeding tube removed 90-year-old, semicomatose stroke victim rekindled debate whether humane withhold food water terminally ill patients.
many doctors, cutting flow nutrients tube equivalent pulling plug respirator.
opponents argue withholding food oversteps line allowing nature take course actively ending life.
``there line many people's eyes,'' said fenella rouse, legal services director society right die new york city, supports right cut nutrition.
``i don't think there's practical difference,'' said.
``i think there's emotional difference.''
wisconsin among least 39 states district columbia permit so-called ``living wills,'' people declare whether would want refuse life-sustaining medical treatment became terminally ill, according society.
wisconsin one handful states laws specifically prohibit cutting food patients.
``do want go around starving dehydrating people death?''
said susan armacost, legislative director wisconsin right life.
group fought proposals broaden living law include nutrition hydration, successfully defeating one effort last year.
norman fost, director medical ethics program university wisconsin medical school madison, said misleading say patients starve death.
says comatose patients cannot experience hunger thirst.
``of course it's always hard withdraw treatment,'' said.
``it goes natural medical impulses.
death often interest patient.''
``people right control medical care,'' concurs arthur caplan, director center biomedical ethics university minnesota.
doctors supported american medical association, says ethical discontinue life-prolonging treatment patients facing imminent death irreversible comas.
treatment ``includes medication artificially technologically supplied respiration, nutrition hydration.''
ms. armacost wisconsin right life insists nutrition different.
patient chance surviving respirator removed, says, cutting food means certain death.
court rulings mixed two states laws exclude removal food water.
connecticut, state supreme court ruled year feeding tubes could removed comatose patient, spoon-and straw-feeding could not.
missouri's supreme court ruled last year parents brain-damaged woman comatose could woman's surgically implanted feeding tube removed.
case appealed u.s. supreme court, pending.
one prosecuted withholding food patient wisconsin.
woman died last year.
milwaukee county district attorney's office seeking advice doctors case elderly stroke victim attempt clarify law.
assistant district attorney thomas potter wouldn't comment whether department considering filing charges.
said department's main intention give doctors guidelines law.
two farmers claimed neighbor's wandering bulls impregnated 32 heifers lawsuit, got far less money sought pay abortions cows young babies.
iowa county circuit court jury awarded damages $640 mike paul mieden thursday.
men sued $54,000.
$640, according veterinarian's testimony, would covered cost administer abortion shots animals.
shots would prolonged health effects.
trial pitting miedens neighbor, lloyd vivian, began monday.
miedens claimed late june early july 1986, two vivian's bulls jumped fence bred 32 86 heifers adjacent pasture.
miedens claimed heifers young bred, lost milk production early pregnancies.
vivian deny bulls pasture heifers, took position miedens could done something prevent damage heifers.
offered heifers' pregnancies checked pay pregnancies aborted.
paul mieden said four heifers aborted veterinarian, four aborted calves delivered 24 heifers died.
two heifers died giving birth, said, others suffered damaged reproductive tracts young deliver.
millions tickets already bought chance win pennsylvania lottery's jackpot $70 million, sure grow, lottery officials urging people splurge tickets.
super 7 jackpot, guaranteed reach $70 million mark wednesday's drawing, would break north american records, lottery spokeswoman terry murphy said friday.
ticket sales super 7 game booming, said.
players bought nearly 7 million tickets thursday friday.
lottery officials continue update jackpot's value sales continue, ms. murphy said.
despite temptation buy many tickets possible increase chances winning, would futile, ms. murphy said.
``the odds winning jackpot one 9.6 million ticket buy,'' said.
``there's way could cover all.''
players use extra money buy tickets, money need cover bills, food, clothing essentials, said.
``we players' discretionary dollars, money would spend buying magazine candy bar,'' said.
one person gets ticket seven 11 winning numbers, would receive $2.69 million year 26 years.
super 7 jackpot guaranteed reach $70 million one bought winning ticket past six weeks.
would surpass lottery jackpots ever offered united states, canada mexico, ms. murphy said.
prior super 7 jackpot, largest u.s. lottery winnings $69.9 million illinois, split four ticket holders april 15.
$70 million prize, pennsylvania's largest jackpot $46 million super 7 game, hollidaysburg couple oct. 14, 1987.
man accused clubbing mother crowbar stabbing death cocaine frenzy ordered take powerful drugs may make competent stand trial.
charles moore, 29, shouted cursed circuit judge robert carney issued order thursday, right spared ``thought-manipulating'' drugs, argued lawyer, ryal gaudiosi.
carney sided state psychiatrists said moore's mental health probably would improve without drugs.
five years moore still mentally competent go trial, criminal charges may dropped, prosecutors said.
moore charged first-degree murder two counts attempted first-degree murder attacking mother, nephew passerby april 1988.
police said clubbed mother crowbar stabbing her, attacked others crowbar.
carney ruled moore mentally incompetent stand trial, taken treatment state-run south florida evaluation treatment center miami september.
state department health rehabilitative services asked carney thursday authority make moore take anti-psychotic drugs aimed altering behavior.
dr. andrew perfilio, psychiatrist treating moore, told carney wants give moore drugs trilafon cogentin.
first anti-psychotic drug; second counter possible side effects trilafon, dry mouth, blurred vision, drooling, involuntary muscle movements even glaucoma.
moore loudly opposed taking drugs.
``i've done best without medicine,'' told court.
``i feel like they're trying kill me.
behavior outstanding since i've there.
want see worse am, bring medicine me.''
perfilio said proposed medication ``the cornerstone treatment.
longer delusional, likely become permanent fixed.''
prospect, coupled potential state may drop charges, makes medicine necessary, argued assistant state attorney pete laporte.
carney agreed order moore take drugs three months, report back him.
``the benefits far outweigh whatever disadvantages may treatment,'' carney said.
moore, handcuffed wore leg shackles, remained unconvinced.
``i'm voluntarily taking drugs,'' insisted.
``i don't even take ...
aspirin.''
united nations conference disarmament ended today gave unanimous backing global ban chemical weapons, officials said.
``there proliferation chemical weapons careful,'' said yasushi akashi, undersecretary-general disarmament affairs u.n. ``we may able close pandora's box.''
akashi others four-day conference noted 20 30 countries possess chemical arms, used recently iran-iraq conflict left 1 million people dead.
universal agreement among 100 arms control experts complete ban chemical weapons negotiated u.n.'s permanent conference disarmament geneva.
experts united states, soviet union 28 nations gathered kyoto conference, held country victim nuclear attacks.
august, 1945, united states dropped atom bombs western cities hiroshima nagasaki.
meeting, experts officials clashed need comprehensive nuclear test ban, policy nuclear deterrence.
seismologists around world agreed modern technology produce highly accurate methods detecting underground nuclear explosions, said needed political support funds build global network seismological monitoring stations.
united states, britian france advocated policy possessing nuclear arms deter others using them, others noted threatening dangerous aspects.
friday, u.s.
ambassador maynard w. glitman told assembly despite unilateral reductions soviet troops conventional arms carried next year, united states would continue stockpile nuclear arms maintain global security.
glitman told reporters today next goal united states arms controls negotiations reduction soviet conventional forces europe.
``to achieve equal number united states soviet union (in europe) enable us look future nuclear reductions there,'' said glitman, chief u.s. negotiator 1987 inf (intermediate-range nuclear missiles) treaty.
two congressmen said would push ``spill czar'' take charge future oil disasters, cleanup exxon valdez spill remained fractious fishermen demanding bigger role.
forty-eight skimmers gathering 100,000 gallons 150,000 gallons oil day, coast guard estimated.
officials said friday widespread delays unloading oil onto barges, exxon spokesman henry beathard blamed crude's thick taffy-like consistency.
giant soviet oil skimmer vaidogubsky, spent two days getting ready testing booms, poised gore point kenai peninsula, large pools oil washing westward stopped spectacular outcropping rocks jutting gulf alaska.
begin collecting oil today.
heavy concentrations oil also remained prince william sound west side kodiak island, 300 miles southwest.
300 miles shoreline affected since tanker ran aground sound last month spilled 10.1 million gallons crude.
delays responding spill contributed spread.
many fishermen frustrated lack progress taken sea themselves, using scoops buckets pick oil contained homemade booms.
kelly duncan, 29, said sucked 7,500 gallons oil seawater hull boat.
said fears fishing boat may permanently contaminated.
homer kenai peninsula, angry fishermen demanded one given equal decision-making power exxon coast guard cleanup.
reps. young, r-alaska, curt weldon, r-pa., met friday night fishermen representatives coast guard exxon.
``we came positive outlook,'' young said without elaborating.
two congressmen toured oil-spotted beaches kenai peninsula earlier day interior secretary manuel lujan jr. news conference, two men said would push legislation put one person _ likely commandant coast guard _ charge cleaning future spills.
commandant paul yost wednesday ended weeklong stay alaska rearranged cleanup strategy, approved exxon plan work set timetable completion.
entire job finished mid-september.
young said legislation plans introduce might include funding one oil-skimming ship stationed alaska.
weldon said would ideal skimmers place coasts.
fire chief pennsylvania port town marcus hook two foreign tankers collided 1975, burning spilling 300,000 gallons.
young also vowed spend money research push use oil-dispersing chemicals, regardless toxicity, dealing future spills.
lujan didn't attend news conference.
left congressmen go kodiak island, home nation's no.
1 fishing port world's largest concentration brown bears.
meanwhile, environmentalists attacked exxon company's reluctance open sea otter treatment center seward.
u.s.
fish wildlife service said friday written exxon strongly re-emphasizing need second treatment center addition one valdez.
fish wildlife service counted 3,406 dead shore birds, 409 dead sea otters four dead bald eagles.
hundreds people gathered honor 47 sailors died uss iowa victims tragedy ``reaches little towns country.''
``words never sufficient time like express feelings share,'' norfolk mayor joseph leafe told 750 people came friday's memorial elizabeth river waterfront.
58,000-ton battleship steaming toward home port arrive sunday.
meanwhile, navy investigators board studied amateur videotape clues wednesday's explosion ship's no.
2 gun turret.
lt. cmdr.
james cudler, pentagon spokesman, said explosion occurred iowa officer making videotape record firing ship's big guns.
cudler said navy officials decided whether release tape publicly.
crewmen upper chambers gun turret killed explosion fire sailors working several levels suffocated blast sucked oxygen, according report today's editions washington post.
maj. tom johnston, spokesman atlantic fleet norfolk, said information causes death.
explosion came two three guns loaded crew given permission load fire center gun, newspaper said.
fire extinguished, crewmen worked quickly remove shells powder two guns, newspaper said.
nbc news reported friday exact cause explosion may never known devastation inside turret complete.
top members senate armed services committee said panel hold hearings fiery explosion.
pentagon ordered 16-inch guns four world war ii-era battleships silenced investigation finished.
critics said 16-inch guns outmoded dangerous.
jim smith, 63, norfolk, said attended memorial considered dead men shipmates.
``i served aboard battleship north carolina 1946.
know big guns ....
know things happen,'' said.
``at times like this, everyone seems pull together.
become one family.''
joan taplett, wife navy commander, said brought 3-year-old son would always remember men died.
``i'm south dakota.
...
heard one men killed there, come,'' said.
``i guess i'm parents.
something like touches us ...
reaches little towns country,'' said.
david l. hanson, 23-year-old electrician's mate 3rd class bison, s.d., population 457, among killed.
wreath 47 yellow carnations cast river, norfolk police honor guard gave 21-gun salute navy bugler played taps 15-minute ceremony.
``on uss iowa, 47 young men died soon ... remember, honor grieve nation,'' gov.
gerald l. baliles said.
navy planning ceremony crew family members monday morning norfolk naval base, president bush scheduled attend.
strike-bound eastern airlines says stopped program rewarded new york cab drivers steering passengers toward gates laguardia airport $25 gift certificates weekly prize drawings.
eastern dropped 2-week-old campaign friday new york's taxi limousine commission told airline illegal.
``once brought attention, discontinued,'' said jim ashlock, eastern spokesman miami.
ellen weiman, spokeswoman commission, said shuttle incentive program cabbies ``against rules,'' since taxi drivers shouldn't induced take riders don't want go.
eastern giving cabbies $25 american express certificate every five loads passengers dropped eastern's shuttle terminal laguardia.
also weekly drawing participating taxi drivers color television set, videocassette recorder radio.
``we'd like think maybe cabbies selling us,'' eastern spokesman robin matell said earlier friday.
noted around half passengers coming laguardia arrive taxi.
eastern's hourly among new york, boston washington running normal schedule, compared 10 percent pre-strike flights airline whole.
passenger loads decimated, however, rival shuttle operated pan corp. eaten eastern's traffic.
pan used incentive plan encourage cabbies pick arriving passengers new york terminal airline started shuttle service late 1986, spokeswoman pamela hanlon said, program wasn't illegal.
said pan captured around 80 percent northeast shuttle market, eastern's taxi program appears impact.
another development, washington property developer confirmed associate friday interested buying eastern.
``we've expressed interest; it's sincere we're pursuing it,'' said john sarpa, senior vice president hadid development co. roslyn, va.
company run mohamed hadid, recently agreed buy ritz-carlton hotels washington new york.
attorneys eastern striking unions recently said four serious offers airline, grounded walkout since march 4.
filed bankruptcy protection five days later.
said bidders ex-baseball commissioner peter v. ueberroth, whose $464 million deal buy eastern collapsed last week; takeover strategist carl icahn; billionaire hotel executive jay pritzker; unnamed suitor.
frank lorenzo, chairman eastern parent's texas air corp., insisted earlier week eastern isn't sale serious fourth bidder.
snow fell northern new england rain showers scattered parts northwest west early today, areas nation dry.
rain dampened eastern coast florida, northeastern south dakota west-central minnesota, western montana idaho panhandle, southwest oregon northeast california.
strong thunderstorm developed southwest minnesota morning.
inch snow fell mount washington new hampshire six hours ending 2 a.m. edt, significant rainfall recorded around nation period.
warnings posted fire danger lower elevations colorado, high temperatures, dry spell gusty winds.
high temperature nation friday 105 degrees buckeye, ariz. today's forecast: rainshowers reaching northern pacific coast across montana; snow extending green white mountains northern new england northeast new york; dry weather much nation.
high temperatures expected 30s 40s new england, inland new york, much michigan; 50s 60s southeast new york across virginias, remainder great lakes, ohio valley, wisconsin, northeast minnesota, northern half rockies, northern half plateau northern half pacific coast; 90s southwest nebraska across much kansas, western oklahoma, western third texas, southern new mexico, southern arizona southeast california.
high temperatures much rest country reach 70s 80s.
temperatures around nation 3 a.m. edt ranged 26 degrees marquette, mich., 87 degrees phoenix.
reports: _east: atlanta 62 fair; boston 49 fair; buffalo 35 fair; charleston, s.c., 57 fair; cincinnati 58 partly cloudy; cleveland 40 fair; detroit 41 fair; miami 70 fair; new york 55 fair; philadelphia 51 fair; pittsburgh 45 fair; portland, maine, 41 showery; washington 57 fair.
_central: bismarck 60 partly cloudy; chicago 49 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 73 fair; denver 67 partly cloudy; des moines 66 fair; indianapolis 59 fair; kansas city 70 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 57 partly cloudy; nashville 57 fair; new orleans 65 foggy; st. louis 67 fair.
_west: albuquerque 66 partly cloudy; anchorage 42 partly cloudy; las vegas 79 windy; los angeles 60 fair; salt lake city 69 partly cloudy; san diego 63 fair; san francisco 51 fair; seattle 50 cloudy.
_canada: montreal 32 fair; toronto 30 fair.
communist rebels today claimed responsibility ambush-slaying u.s. army officer, said retaliation united states' ``arrogant trampling'' philippine independence.
col. james ``nick'' rowe, former vietnam prisoner war, killed friday shot head gunmen stolen car sprayed vehicle bullets way work suburban quezon.
communist new people's army general command claimed responsibility statement delivered news agencies.
letter bore logo rebel army released behalf chief, romulo kintanar.
statement threatened attacks united states continues support president corazon aquino's fight 20-year communist insurgency.
``the death col. rowe signifies firm commitment revolutionary forces continue military actions u.s. personnel installations manifestations arrogant trampling u.s. imperialists filipino people's independence sovereignty,'' statement said.
rowe, 51, chief ground forces division joint u.s.-military advisory group, provides training logistical support philippine military.
rowe, native mcallen, texas, decorated vietnam war hero held cage five years viet cong prisoner war escaped 1968.
u.s.
ambassador nicholas platt called killing ``cowardly'' act.
marlin fitzwater, president bush's press secretary, said u.s. government work philippine government ``to track bring justice responsible assassination.''
police said recovered assailants' car traced filipino civilian said stolen april 7.
cartridges bullets used killing littered vehicle, police said.
police said three cars may used ambush, witnesses said saw one carrying least three men, driver two gunmen.
one gunman m-16 rifle .45-caliber pistol, police said.
rowe's filipino driver wounded attack.
came five days communist national democratic front said rebels ``determined make u.s. imperialism pay dearly continuing stay bases escalating intervention people's affairs.''
statement issued claim reponsibility bombing u.s. communications station northern province benguet april 9.
one hurt.
october 1987, rebels killed three americans filipino outside clark air base, 50 miles north manila.
authorities increased security six u.s. military installations civilian offices philippines.
u.s. navy today ordered additional security 1,000 sailors flagship uss blue ridge 7th fleet.
ship arrived friday four-day port call.
lt. mike andrews, fleet's spokesman, said sailors told, among things, travel groups stay away dark alleys.
washington, state department deputy spokesman richard boucher said friday u.s. travel advisory issued march 15 ``indicates areas country where, criminal activity terrorist activity, people try avoid.''
advisory says urban areas philippines including manila safe travelers.
boucher indicated advisory might revised.
``i'm sure looked at,'' said.
``i would note threats heard official americans, weren't general threats travelers.''
former gov.
evan mecham run public office despite impeachment conviction ousted year ago, attorney general said.
``naturally `i'm happy it,'' said mecham, already announced 1990 gubernatorial bid.
``it's thought be,'' told television station kpnx omaha, neb.
opinion issued friday attorney general bob corbin nonbinding could challenged court, political leaders parties said wouldn't challenge it.
``i think issue settled voters arizona,'' said phoenix developer j. fife symington iii, announced run mecham next year's gop primary.
corbin said mecham free run becafice future.
impeachment conviction disqualify mecham automatically, said.
attorney, donald macpherson, said mecham originally intended ``take question `dracula clause' supreme court regardless bob corbin's opinion.''
republican-controlled senate ousted mecham april 4, 1988, required two-thirds vote.
vote 17-13 _ three short two-thirds majority _ senate failed invoke so-called ``dracula clause'' would driven political stake mecham's heart barred holding office again.
legal scholars said senate might needed vote clause state's constitution speaks ouster disqualification sentence.
even separate vote required, said, simple majority 17-13 might enough.
11-page opinion, corbin said wrote state's constitution expected would separate votes ouster disqualification.
political leaders parties welcomed opinion said would better let mecham go ahead campaign 1990.
``i think ought able run,'' said senate president robert usdane, republican voted oust mecham also voted ``dracula clause.''
``i think it'd better martyred,'' usdane added.
senate minority leader alan stephens, democrat also voted impeachment ``dracula clause,'' said corbin's ruling ``is right decision.''
democratic gov.
rose mofford, succeeded mecham following ouster, said attorney general's opinion would change plans run governor 1990.
mecham elected fifth try governor 1986 impeached house barely year office.
articles impeachment charged mecham concealing developer's campaign loan, misusing state money obstructing justice.
senate convicted mecham misuse funds obstruction charges deferred obstruction charge superior court, acquitted.
macpherson said mecham still plans ask state supreme court next month set aside impeachment.
``we still high hopes either articles impeachment dismissed, would put gov.
mecham immediately back office, new trial declared,'' macpherson said.
fears fragile bayou environment receding officials downgraded estimated size spill oil-tainted water 10,000 gallons.
meanwhile, coast guard said employee transferring waste water barge spill occurred lacked proper certification.
spill so-called ``slop water'' occurred early friday loading dock grand river, 35 miles southwest baton rouge, said bobby mayweather gsx land treatment nearby white castle.
barge carrying 900,000 gallons waste water exxon plant houston.
buckled middle waste unloaded tanker trucks, mayweather said.
authorities said spill quickly contained cleanup would continue today.
exxon paid gsx treat dispose waste white castle, mayweather said.
coast guard lt. cmdr.
dean kutz said one companies individual could assessed civil penalties conducting transfer without proper documentation.
coast guard chief warrant officer larry doss said gsx employee gordon vice didn't required merchant marine certification job.
rick davenport, facility manager gsx recovery unit crowley, confirmed vice manning operation spill occurred, declined comment further.
gsx assuming responsibility cleanup, davenport said.
barge leased gsx exxon responsibility shipment left texas site, said iberville parish sheriff freddie pitre.
paul dubois, spokesman palmer co., owner barge, said waste water used wash tanks ships.
louisiana state police lt. ronnie jones said according exxon, waste 90 percent water, 7 percent alcohol 3 percent light oil.
state police initially estimated spill 400,000 gallons, gsx estimated 180,000 gallons.
exxon chemical spokeswoman jill johnson dallas downgraded estimate late friday 10,000 gallons.
one injured accident, johnson said small number fish killed outset.
``it looked like giant stepped barge smack middle,'' said jones.
``oil-absorbing booms place shortly spill believe waste confined immediate area grand river.
``things could awful lot worse waste involved quick response iberville parish officials, we've got good handle situation,'' said.
escaped mental patient doused gasoline set fire front closed abortion clinic arrested twice previous protests there, clinic official said.
thomas valiquette, 26, critical condition early morning third-degree burns entire body vanderbilt university medical center burn center, hospital spokesman doug williams said.
``the doctor said prognosis good,'' williams said.
earl ferrell, administrator clinic, said friday valiquette arrested clinic anti-abortion protests.
``he arrested illegally entering clinic, trying disrupt operations.
could prosecute him, would judged incompetent stand trial,'' ferrell said.
valiquette escaped middle tennessee mental health institute sometime friday, said nashville police detective jim fuqua.
``my understanding mental health institute suffered delusions could fly,'' fuqua said.
nashville fire marshall investigating attempted suicide found anti-abortion pamphlets man, fuqua said.
``a nurse asked protest nodded,'' said.
valiquette committed institute general sessions court judge william faimon leaping balcony downtown shopping arcade june 1988 police described suicide attempt.
suffered severe broken arm severe head injuries, tennessean reported today's editions.
nashville morning newspaper also reported valiquette escaped least three times left institute friday visiting hours.
two nashville firefighters station across street saw valiquette walk clinic realized late stop him.
``he reached pocket, came bic lighter, flicked human torch right eyes,'' said howard cage, firefighter emergency medical technician.
two firefighters drove engine street.
``we pulled hose extinguished him, put burn sheets administered oxygen,'' cage said.
ferrell said clinic closed renovations feb. 24 state inspectors found numerous violations fire health regulations.
ferrell said hopes clinic reopen next week.
target numerous anti-abortion protests, clinic obtained court injunction limiting number protesters, ferrel said.
``i'm really sorry happened, something us sure want avoid,'' ferrell said.
``for sound thinking person, realize person incompetent, think, effect pro-abortion anti-abortion debate,'' ferrell said.
``something like touches us.
...
reaches little towns country.''
_ joan taplett, wife navy commander, attended services 47 sailors died explosion uss iowa.
``we make illusions even able begin handle need.
solving problem.''
_ ross mountain, director united nations development program, efforts distribute emergency rations afghanistan.
``kids california allowed wear shorts school.
guess they're bunch illiterate dropouts it.''
_ high school student aaron martinez baton rouge, la., mocking school officials say one reason ban shorts distracted students.
demonstrators gathered today protest nearby white supremacist conference, many people oppose racism stayed away fear violence.
law enforcement officers, meanwhile, made plans head potential confrontations two groups.
many 2,000 demonstrators expected march seven-mile ``walk racial equality,'' planned end two miles aryan nations compound, site conference neo-nazi youths.
sheriff's deputies officers idaho state police coeur d'alene police planned show force around anti-racism marchers discourage confrontations.
``we've established feel tactics going ensure safety parties involved,'' said capt.
tom dickson.
fewer 100 neo-nazi youths believed staying 30-acre ranch richard butler, founder church jesus christ christian, aryan nations, white supremacist organization wants turn northwest ``whites only'' homeland.
butler said white supremacist leaders, including ku klux klan officials, speak conduct workshops.
sheriff's deputies set checkpoints friday roads leading camp miles north coeur d'alene check identifications people entering area.
lisa anderson, organizer citizens nonviolent action racism, coeur d'alene-based group sponsoring march, said expected problems.
although march endorsed rev.
jesse jackson's rainbow coalition, new jewish agenda washington gov.
booth gardner, groups anti-defamation league b'nai b'rith staying away.
marvin stern, regional adl director seattle, said group concerned placing additional burden law enforcement potential violence.
idaho gov.
cecil andrus also refused endorse march, saying could promote violence give neo-nazis publicity.
statement issued friday, andrus lashed skinheads.
``the people idaho stand united hate groups would spread message fear intolerance,'' said.
leaders organizations formed past decade combat aryan nations planned picnic events miles away white supremacist gathering.
``we think march much honor respect,'' said norm gissell, chairman kootenai county task force human relations.
many 150,000 students supporters, waving fists chanting ``long live freedom,'' demonstrated today communist system china's leaders watched behind wall soldiers.
facing 8,000 troops, students shouted, ``down dictatorship, corruption!''
top members communist party hierarchy filed funeral ousted party chief hu yaobang.
protest tiananmen square, symbolic political center china, one clearest rejections ever communist system china's increasingly disaffected youth.
also marked culmination week-long commemoration hu's death last saturday.
15 hours demonstrations featured major incidents, students waved colored pro-democracy banners turned plaza sea red white banners.
students confronted china's leaders filed memorial service hu great hall, chanting anti-government slogans.
hu, died heart attack, 73.
turnout one largest china since communist victory nationalists 1949, biggest 13 years, death premier chou en-lai sparked outpouring grief anger toward leftist government end 1966-76 cultural revolution.
major differences bloody, spontaneous 1976 protest remained.
today's protest left people injured well organized.
government rejected students' demands, including greater freedom speech press, money education, disclosure incomes top officials reassessment hu's historical role.
students ended demonstration, departed peacefully groups represented 30 universities beijing cities.
shanghai, 1,500 people marched downtown, also commemorate hu's death.
earlier today, 2,000 students marched campus east normal university.
beijing, traffic stopped along changan boulevard, capital's main avenue, people climbed trees get better view procession.
students said would go back campuses boycott classes.
4,000 officials attending ceremony started arrive morning, students let roar, waved banners raised fingers v-for-victory salutes.
officials, protected triple line military troops, stopped momentarily listen.
ceremony, party general secretary zhao ziyang praised predecessor, saying ``as marxist, hu yaobang led glorious life.''
hu forced resign disgrace january 1987 accused party conservatives soft student demonstrators western liberal ideas.
zhao's 10-minute speech, large portrait hu draped black bunting, made specific mention hu's ouster not, demanded students, attempt reassess hu's performance.
zhao said hu man ``brave enough admit mistakes insist upon thought right.
never tried hold back opinions.''
aging ideologues believed engineered hu's ouster attend ceremony.
among absent former president li xiannian, former politburo member bo yibo former party propaganda chief deng liqun.
senior leader deng xiaoping, 84, looking tired fragile, circled glass-encased casket shook hands hu's family wife, li zhao.
hu's body clad western suit draped red communist party flag.
flags flown half-staff tiananmen square front communist party headquarters, scene clash demonstrators police earlier week.
official xinhua news agency said 1 million people, crowds five deep, lined streets watch motorcade carried hu's body babaoshan state cemetery western beijing cremation.
said people carried banners reading ``farewell, comrade yaobang'' ``yaobang, we'll always remember you.''
zhao's speech broadcast loudspeakers square students paid little attention.
soon finished resumed chants ``long live democracy.''
officials descended steps great hall, shouted: ``we demand dialogue!''
``come li peng!''
li, china's premier, technocrat regarded lukewarm toward economic political reforms.
said social stability must take priority china, ``excessive democracy'' would harm nation.
unlike soviet union, held direct parliamentary elections given press greater freedom, china taken lead economic reforms.
taken small, cautious steps make political system open.
man identified principal suspect dozen drug-related torture slayings mexico near u.s. border denied killer said may information deaths, officials said.
hector fragoso burgueno, 45, held without bond friday federal correctional center arrest late thursday mobile home isolated area 30 miles west tucson.
``he's principal one, according witnesses,'' said enrique cecena, zone commander judicial police mexican state sonora.
mexican federal state authorities file formal requests fragoso's return mexico, officials said.
gerard murphy, drug enforcement administration special agent, said fragoso ``has made statements extricating culpability murders agua prieta.
however, said may able provide information authorities aware of.''
fragoso found woman identified wife, anna marie fragoso.
scott coffin, deputy chief agent u.s. border patrol tucson, said fragoso held illegal alien federal immigration arrest warrant.
wife could voluntarily deported mexico, officials said.
fragoso owned ranch near mexican border town agua prieta bodies found march 29 april 1.
shaved moustache, changed hair style altered eyebrows, ``it didn't help him.
recognized right away,'' said pima county sheriff's maj. dennis douglas.
douglas said investigators found fragoso getting various tips, including local crime hotline tv show ``america's wanted,'' segment sunday fragoso.
authorities investigating whether agua prieta killings linked slayings five people whose bodies found tucson shed shortly agua prieta bodies discovered.
cecena said 11 agua prieta victims apparently killed witnessed murder one person.
border patrol said fragoso extensive arrest history, ranging drug weapons violations assault, sexual assault robbery.
like unrelated ritual slayings 15 people matamoros discovered last week, authorities consider agua prieta killings drug-related.
names 47 sailors listed pentagon killed explosion wednesday aboard battleship uss iowa, ranks hometowns.
tung thanh adams, 25, fire controlman 3rd class, alexandria, va. robert wallace backherms, 30, gunner's mate 3rd class, ravenna, ohio.
dwayne collier battle, 21, electrician's mate, fireman apprentice, rocky mount, n.c. walter scot blakey, 20, gunner's mate 3rd class, eaton rapids, mich. pete edward bopp, 21, gunner's mate 3rd class, levittown, n.y. ramon jerel bradshaw, 19, seaman recruit, tampa, fla. phillip edward buch, 24, lieutenant junior grade, las cruces, n.m. eric ellis casey, 21, seaman apprentice, mount airy, n.c. john peter cramer, 28, gunner's mate 2nd class, uniontown, pa. milton francis devaul jr., 21, gunner's mate 3rd class, solvay, n.y. leslie allen everhart jr., 31, seaman apprentice, cary, n.c. gary john fisk, 24, boatswain's mate, oneida, n.y. tyrone dwayne foley, 27, seaman, bullard, texas.
robert james gedeon iii, 22, seaman apprentice, lakewood, ohio.
brian wayne gendron, 20, seaman apprentice, madera, calif. john leonard goins, 20, seaman recruit, columbus, ohio.
david l. hanson, 23, electrician's mate 3rd class, bison, s.d.
ernest edward hanyecz, 27, gunner's mate 1st class, bordentown, n.j. clayton michael hartwig, 25, gunner's mate 2nd class, cleveland.
michael william helton, 31, legalman 1st class, louisville, ky. scott alan holt, 20, seaman apprentice, fort myers, fla. reginald johnson jr., 20, seaman recruit, warrensville heights, ohio.
brian robert jones, 19, seaman, kennesaw, ga. nathaniel clifford jones, jr., seaman apprentice, 21, buffalo, n.y. michael shannon justice, 21, seaman, matewan, w.va. edward j. kimble, 23, seaman, fort stockton, texas.
richard e. lawrence, 29, gunner's mate 3rd class, springfield, ohio.
richard john lewis, 23, firecontrolman seaman apprentice, northville, mich. jose luis martinez jr., 21, seaman apprentice, hidalgo, texas.
todd christopher mcmullen, 20, boatswain's mate 3rd class, manheim, pa. todd edward miller, 25, seaman recruit, ligonier, pa. robert kenneth morrison, 36, legalman 1st class, fort lauderdale, fla. otis levance moses, 23, seaman, bridgeport, conn. darin andrew ogden, 24, gunner's mate 3rd class, shelbyville, ind.
ricky ronald peterson, 22, seaman, houston, minn. matthew ray price, 20, gunner's mate 3rd class, burnside, pa. harold earl romine jr., 19, gunner's mate 3rd class, bradenton, fla. geoffrey scott schelin, 20, seaman, costa mesa, calif. heath eugene stillwagon, 21, gunner's mate 3rd class, connellsville, pa. todd thomas tatham, 19, seaman recruit, wolcott, n.y. jack ernest thompson, 22, gunner's mate 3rd class, greeneville, tenn. stephen j. welden, 24, gunner's mate 2nd class, bethany, okla. james darrell white, 22, gunner's mate 3rd class, norwalk, calif. rodney maurice white, 19, seaman recruit, louisville, ky. michael robert williams, 21, boatswain's mate 2nd class, south shore, ky. john rodney young, 21, seaman, columbia, s.c. reginald owen ziegler, 39, gunner's mate, port gibson, n.y.
residents angered government-imposed price increases defied curfew rioted town near amman today.
king hussein cut short overseas trip headed home united states.
eight people killed violence began tuesday, presidents jordan's professional associations called hussein withdraw armed forces towns villages prevent bloodshed.
said statement government set bad example implementing austerity measures called elections new government.
hussein return worst unrest country since army put violence palestinian guerrillas 1971.
rioting began tuesday south, bedrock support, response price increases 10 percent 50 percent gasoline, cigarettes, heating oil commodities.
thursday night violence spread north.
friday, rioters northern town salt threw rocks police looted buildings.
shouted support hussein, called ouster prime minister zaid rifai, blame austerity measures declining living standards.
rioting, children played inside shattered offices, hundreds people milled around glass-strewn streets city 100,000 10 miles north amman.
injuries reported today's riots.
``we fed government.
stolen money,'' said man 60s refused give name.
said demonstrators ``trust king's leadership know respond.''
king hussein, state visit washington, canceled trip britain set today rioting instead return home, jordanian embassy london said.
first riots occurred southern city maan, government said four civilians one police officer killed.
three people reported killed mazar, 55 miles south amman.
friday, troops banned moslems attending weekly prayers mosques maan southern cities attempt prevent unrest.
cancellation friday prayers highly unusual islamic country.
koran, islam's holy book, calls moslems participate ceremony, take binding duty.
state-run jordan television broadcast appeal jordanians friday night end violence, first time showed pictures smashed buildings destroyed vehicles.
``these services government tried provide whole country, paid tears sweat blood built,'' said mohammed amin, jordan television director narrated 20-minute program.
``these destroyed bunch terrorists.''
amin said damage would add jordan's economic problems ``because added pressure.''
government announced price increases sunday part agreement international monetary fund reschedule jordan's $6 billion foreign debt.
came top rising unemployment soaring inflation.
israeli radio tv reported difficulties ``to instigate problems,'' amin said, ``news agencies exaggerating picture situation.''
government officials earlier hinted moslem fundamentalists inflamed unrest.
rioting involved native jordanians, palestinian half population.
syrian forces today fired rockets port jounieh, escape route lebanon's beleaguered christians.
casualties reported sporadic 122mm soviet-designed grad rockets exploded around jounieh, 10 miles north beirut, coastal highway running north ancient port byblos.
attack came three-day lull battle syrians allied moslem druse militia mainly christian units lebanon's fractured armed forces army commander gen. michel aoun.
police count, least 270 people killed nearly 1,000 wounded ferocious artillery, rocket tank exchanges began march 8 divided capital.
police, speaking condition anonymity, reported estimated 4,000 christians gathered jounieh await ferries cyprus, 130 miles northeast, take safety.
4,000-ton baroness m, one two ferries carried 12,000 christians cyprus last six weeks, anchored jounieh friday night.
took 1,200 people jounieh small boats.
ferry, larnaca rose, suspended jounieh run three days ago came syrian shelling near lebanese port.
cypriot shipping officials said known next ferry sail jounieh.
beirut's moslem-controlled voice nation today termed syrian rocketing warning ships stay away besieged enclave.
``it persist long blockade imposed aoun perists,'' said.
latest fighting broke two days aoun, seeking restore state authority, blockaded illegal ports south beirut run moslem militias.
aoun's troops 310-square-mile christian enclave, ringed three landward sides hostile forces, returned syrian fire since fighting died late wednesday.
automatic teller machines helped police track winery worker accused murdering seven people, including wife two daughters.
sonoma county sheriff's office persuaded wells fargo bank extend unlimited credit ramon salcido arranged track transactions made automatic teller card, said sheriff dick michaelsen.
tip salcido's sister brother-in-law mexico also helped authorities find him, san francisco chronicle reported today, citing unidentified u.s. diplomatic law enforcement sources.
salcido, 28, also accused killing mother-in-law two daughters co-worker winery forklift operator, arraigned murder charges friday captured mexico.
salcido reported run bank funds last week cocaine-and-alcohol binge friends said preceded april 14 slaughter.
tried use bank card least wells fargo branch morning san rafael, 30 miles south, possibly later san francisco heading mexico, authorities said.
manhunt ended wednesday salcido arrested western mexico near hometown los mochis.
spokesman sheriff's department, citing gag order imposed judge friday, would comment report family members tipping police.
salcido, also charged three counts attempted murder, appeared court friday handcuffs bulletproof vest.
enter plea return court may 5.
could get death penalty convicted.
salcido's attorney, chief public defender marteen miller said expected salcido would enter plea innocent reason insanity.
added would client undergo psychiatric neurological tests.
``i expect find brain lesion tumor,'' said miller, called crimes, ``so bizarre, incomprehensible.''
``god, hope find something,'' said miller, also planned ask trial moved publicity case received.
prosecutor, however, discounted speculation rampage fueled part alcohol cocaine us said believed salcido legally sane.
``the final decision state mind made court,'' said district attorney gene tunney.
``those acts irrational berserker.''
arrest, salcido told mexican television reporters law enforcement agents killed american-born wife, angela, 24, winery co-worker, tracy toovey, jealous rage, believing toovey wife romantically involved, according federal officials.
also killed series attacks across sonoma valley 40 miles north san francisco salcido's mother-in-law two sisters-in-law, 8 12.
salcido also accused killing two daughters, 1 4, found dead dump april 15.
throats slashed.
another daughter, carmina, turns 3 monday, also found dump slashed throat recovering identified father attacker, police said.
suspected communist guerrillas attacked homes two government militiamen southern philippines today.
seven people, including three children one militiaman, killed, police said.
police report said attack, automatic rifles grenade launchers, occurred remote town sindangan zamboanga del norte province, 40 miles northwest pagadian 460 miles southeast manila.
sgt.
gideon rodrigo, sindangan police station commander, said 30 members communist new people's army fired simultaneously two houses m-16 rifles m-203 grenade launchers.
seven occupants killed five wounded, including militiaman survived, said.
rodrigo said government militiamen owned homes attack retaliation participation government's campaign rebels.
insurgents took away militiamen's farm animals, said.
nearby zamboanga del sur province, two militiamen killed friday 200 rebels attacked town mahayag held residents nearly one hour escaping, military report said.
said rebels issued challenge soldiers area fought 30 minutes.
another attack friday, rebels killed two militiamen town molave adjoining misamis oriental province, military said.
solidarity leader lech walesa said today east bloc's first independent trade union probably get smaller independent groups form poland.
``from solidarity, economic political organizations born,'' walesa said news conference ending three-day visit italy.
``solidarity moment huge become smaller growth organizations.
logical course events.''
polish independent trade union crushed security forces 1981 outlawed 1982.
poland's communist government restored legality solidarity monday reaching agreement solidarity-led opposition political social reforms.
government seeking support solidarity aid west restore shattered economy.
coinciding official recognition solidarity, president bush announced $1 billion economic aid program poland.
walesa said program ``a great step forward taken mr.
bush.''
walesa, winner 1983 nobel peace prize, indicated planned visit countries ``ambassador solidarity'' say ones.
walesa came italy seeking economic investment poland blessing fellow pole pope john paul ii country's new political course.
solidarity leader said would like see pope make another trip poland john paul many obligations.
``and love him, spare him,'' walesa said.
``for reason, told worry much poland _ reached accords, worry less.
it's clear, though, won't listen us continue concerned.''
fire apartment early today killed three adults two children, officials said.
cause blaze investigation.
fire chief wesley walker said victims appeared died smoke inhalation.
two found bathroom two bedroom, officials said.
location fifth body immediately known.
walker said fire apparently began kitchen engulfed apartment time firefighters arrived.
former pentagon employee dismissed executive hazeltine corp., defense contractor, given prison terms stemming ``ill wind'' investigation military procurement corruption.
u.s. district court judge claude m. hilton friday sentenced jack a. sherman, 52, one-time civilian marine corps contracting supervisor, 18 months prison taking $43,500 bribes unidentified defense consultant exchange inside information military contracts.
hilton also sentenced former hazeltine vice president joseph r. colarusso, 58, 10 months prison fined $30,000 improperly obtaining inside information $150 million navy electronics contract sought hazeltine last year.
colarusso pleaded guilty january conspiracy defraud federal government commit wire fraud connection hiring defense consultant obtained inside data bribing navy engineer.
also january, sherman pleaded guilty bribery conspiracy agreed pay federal taxes unreported bribe income.
also pay back $43,500, supplied fbi.
consultant passed money sherman working fbi informant.
prime minister noboru takeshita received $378,000 loan 1987 company center growing bribery scandal, japanese news media reported today.
takeshita, heads governing liberal democratic party, received loan recruit co. repaid several months later, kyodo news service japan broadcasting corp. said.
said officials takeshita's office confirmed loan disclose terms repayment.
takeshita mention loan told parliament committee april 11 received $1 million political donations recruit 1985 1987.
recruit, information services company, suspected using political donations financial transactions gain favors politicians bureaucrats.
although pressure takeshita step appease public opposition criticism scandal grown past week, lack strong candidates untainted scandal makes takeshita's resignation problematic.
virtually none influential liberal democratic leaders could take takeshita, says takeshi sasaki, political science professor tokyo university.
``there leadership vacuum.
there's literally nobody powerful tainted scandal,'' said robert m. orr, professor political science temple university tokyo.
opposition demanding takeshita resign former prime minister yasuhiro nakasone testify parliament role recruit affair.
survey nationwide newspaper mainichi shimbun released friday showed 35.7 percent liberal democratic party members japan's parliament responding poll think takeshita resign.
takeshita nakasone among 17 politicians reportedly benefited unlisted, cut-rate shares real-estate subsidiary recruit.
shares, sold company 160 influential politicians, public officials businessmen, produced substantial profits recipients over-the-counter trading began october 1986.
although transactions illegal, aroused suspicions bribery influence-peddling.
result outcry fund-raising practices cozy relationship businessmen politicians.
end washington maintenance testing.
supreme court hears arguments week limiting _ even ending _ women's abortion rights, battle sure continue matter decided missouri case justices.
dispute missouri abortion-regulation law, arguments conducted wednesday, become one history's closely watched high court cases.
two reasons: _missouri officials bush administration urging court use case overturn substantially limit landmark 1973 decision legalizing abortion.
_even court accept invitation decides missouri case narrowly, decision _ expected july _ viewed barometer current court's commitment 16-year-old ruling roe vs. wade.
``if roe reversed, nation's whole political landscape could change,'' said kate michelman, executive director national abortion rights action league.
``state state, goal would obtaining legislative right abortion, making lack constitutional right irrelevant.''
added: ``it longer would acceptable politician anti-choice.''
reversal 1973 ruling would allow states stringently restrict access abortions, even ban virtually abortions.
james bopp, general counsel anti-abortion national right life committee, said, ``roe vs. wade doomed point foreseeable future pro-choice people laying legal groundwork attacks restrictions, already arguing amount gender-based discrimination involuntary servitude.''
1973 decision emerges unscathed court's decision missouri case?
``we (in pro-choice movement) would still vulnerable,'' michelman said recent interview.
laurie ann ramsey, director education americans united life, agreed.
``reversal 1992 part strategic plan.
(the missouri case), next'' said.
``we want keep many cases pipeline possible.''
michelman's apprehension ramsey's confidence stem changes high court's membership since ruled, 7-2 vote, 1973 women constitutional right abortion.
three members original roe vs. wade majority remain _ justices harry a. blackmun, william j. brennan thurgood marshall.
supported 1973 decision subsequent rulings.
justice john paul stevens, joined court 1975, dependable ``pro-roe'' ally.
two 1973 dissenters, now-chief justice william h. rehnquist justice byron r. white, still oppose ruling.
significant retreat roe vs. wade attract court's three junior justices _ sandra day o'connor, antonin scalia anthony m. kennedy.
appointees former president ronald reagan, outspoken critic high court's abortion rulings.
o'connor criticized rationale roe vs. wade dissenting 1986 decision striking certain abortion regulations pennsylvania.
unknown whether disagrees core holding 1973 decision _ women fundamental right abortion.
scalia kennedy yet ruled abortion case, many believe favor cutting back abortion rights.
``justice o'connor key,'' naral's michelman said.
``we wrote (friend-of-the-court) brief speak sandra day o'connor.''
dawn johnsen, naral legal director wrote brief, said, ``if going win it's likely one vote.
that's kind victory one comfortable.''
all, justices received record 78 friend-of-the-court briefs _ judicial branch's equivalent lobbying _ interested individuals organizations actually involved missouri dispute.
justices often give unsolicited advice close attention.
cannot said, however, tens thousands letters hundreds telephone calls court receiving daily americans expressing views abortion.
``this popularity contest,'' court spokeswoman toni house said.
``this war ideas, numbers.''
war, one end sight.
here, glance, views supreme court member court's 1973 roe vs. wade decision, reached 7-2 vote, women constitutional right abortion.
_justice harry a. blackmun, 80.
authored landmark roe vs. wade opinion impassioned champion court.
told law school audience last fall court might reverse 1973 ruling term.
``you count votes,'' said.
_justice william j. brennan, 82.
roman catholic, reportedly steered court's closed-door deliberations led 1973 ruling joined blackmun's majority opinion.
_justice thurgood marshall, 80.
third remaining member roe vs. wade majority.
_justice john paul stevens, 68.
since joining court 1975, consistently voted uphold abortion right.
_chief justice william h. rehnquist, 64.
dissenter 1973 and, subsequent abortion rulings, voted give states far greater authority regulate abortions.
_justice byron r. white, 71.
second dissenter roe vs. wade, said subsequent abortion opinion 1973 decision ``essentially created something nothing.''
_justice sandra day o'connor, 58.
dissenting vote 1986, favored giving states authority regulating abortions criticized legal approach taken blackmun 1973.
never said women constitutional right abortion.
_justice antonin scalia, 52.
never participated abortion case federal appeals court judge, since joining high court 1986 taken public stand abortion.
_justice anthony m. kennedy, 52.
although federal appeals court judge 12 years joining court last year, never ruled abortion case stated views publicly issue.
historic 101st congress sorts.
institution began bicentennial year pledging cooperate new president touting ambitious legislative agenda.
lawmakers spent first four months killing 50-percent pay raise embarrassment, flinging morals charges defense secretary nominee john tower investigating ethics highest-ranking official, house speaker jim wright.
``this worse people's court,'' said rep. david mccurdy, d-okla., likening institution television tribunal.
``the pay raise, john tower, jim wright _ i'm baffled.
what's going on?
don't think incumbent comes looking good sideshow.''
end last week, congress met seven fewer days year date 1987, beginning 100th congress.
sixteen laws enacted year, none major 10 commemorative measures like ``national agriculture day.''
beyond statistics, there's widespread sense congress sleepwalking legislative paces year, distracted preoccupied internal problems.
``we're tired do-nothing congress,'' said rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., house republicans last week accused majority democrats ignoring important legislation.
``we demand democrats bring issues house ... job elected do.''
implication wright top lieutenants busy playing defense 69 rules violations alleged speaker lost legislative compass.
democratic leaders, responsible capitol's output, disagree point bipartisan agreements bush administration budget aid nicaraguan contra rebels, legislation minimum wage, savings loans, military base closings.
``while everybody would like see (wright) matter resolved quickly possible, function house proceeding,'' said rep. tom foley, d-wash., majority leader.
``the speaker moving important legislative matters.
it's true house representatives gridlock condition.''
congresses notoriously slow-starting, especially first session two-year term.
hill leaders bide time early part year waiting bush administration budget proposals, appointments legislative initiatives.
even that, year far less productive most.
budget agreement add oil legislative machinery, failed seriously address nation's deficit problem.
base closings action merely ratification steps taken last year independent commission took political heat congress.
``it confluence would normal slowness, added distractions,'' said christopher deering, political scientist george washington university close observer legislative process.
``that conspired make this, appearance especially, slow start.
instead substance, they've focus sidelights.''
blinding current sidelight wright investigation.
last week, ethics committee formally charged texas democrat 69 instances violating house rules.
lawyers wright committee fencing arrangements speaker appear mount personal defense panel, appears case drag least weeks.
one aspect case, complicated oil well transaction yielded wright huge profits last year, remains investigation could yet cause additional problems speaker.
waiting wings separate ethics case wright, alleging improperly disclosed covert cia operation nicaragua.
republicans say plan press matter.
``he's shark bait right now, that's fun,'' said mccurdy.
``this crazy process.''
house floor corners around capitol, wright replaced tower pay raise prime topic conversation.
``they're talking every second,'' said rep. beryl anthony, d-ark.
even democratic senators worried party's image taken rare interest happens side building.
one house democrat, rep. bill richardson new mexico, said mood colleagues lowest ebb years.
``there's slowdown morale loss,'' richardson said.
``it's bleak period.
i've congress seven years i've never felt bad member congress.''
wright's defenders call charges _ failed report $145,000 improper gifts friend direct interest legislation, sought evade limits outside income bulk sales book wrote _ trivial reaction overblown.
``it beneath dignity house question kind thing,'' said rep. james scheuer, d-n.y. ``there certain sense outrage process taken life never intended.''
wright sought maintain normal schedule, varying results.
much days lately consumed meetings lawyer, william c. oldaker, political allies plotting defense strategy.
wright's normally daily press conferences become less frequent.
one recent one reporters peppered ethics questions, finally asked exasperation: ``do questions government united states?''
soviet defense spending rose 3 percent last year, despite president mikhail s. gorbachev's promises cut military budget, according intelligence report released sunday.
study, prepared jointly cia pentagon's defense intelligence agency, also said gorbachev laying groundwork proposed 14.2 percent cut defense spending.
study said chopping military spending sharply would require soviets reduce armed forces 500,000-troop reduction announced gorbachev last december, meaning cutbacks soviet military.
newly declassified report painted grim overall picture soviet economy.
said gorbachev forced slow pace economic reforms delay key steps allowing market set wholesale retail prices.
reforms good chance success long run, likely cause gorbachev short term political problems consumers want see faster improvement bureaucrats resent loss power economic decision-making, report said.
economy hampered sluggish industrial agricultural performance, disruptions confusion stemming gorbachev's reforms, cost coping earthquake struck armenia last december, report said.
``according estimates, soviet economy grew 1.5 percent 1988 _ second straight poor yearly showing,'' study said.
cost rebuilding armenia exceed estimated $11.2 billion price tag cleaning 1986 chernobyl nuclear reactor disaster, cia predicted.
factors contributed budget deficit cia estimated 9 percent soviet gross national product, value goods services produced economy.
last year kremlin admitted first time running deficit, although estimates amount varied among soviet economists.
poor economic performance forced gorbachev back away programs, need provide consumer goods impelling decrease defense spending, report said.
``soviet media indicated campaigns modernize industrial plant equipment reform economic system even much-vaunted anti-alcohol campaign failing occasioning major disruptions,'' said.
``gorbachev remains committed original vision revitalized economy,'' report said.
``he has, however, apparently concluded cannot realize vision rapidly thought possible, proceed directly along path initially planned follow.''
``the shifts gorbachev implemented, view, potential, sustained, boost consumer welfare bring sense order economy,'' report said.
``gorbachev acknowledged consumer welfare must substantially improved soon regime develop broad-based popular support perestroika,'' reforms called russian, said.
mean 14.2 percent cut defense spending, gorbachev announced january, first time put firm number cuts discussed part new military doctrine known ``reasonable sufficiency.''
despite proclamation new ``defensive'' military doctrine past two years, ``soviet defense spending, measured constant 1982 rubles, grew roughly 3 percent, line growth rates past several years,'' cia said.
``procurement weapons systems major contributor growth,'' cia said.
``missile procurement _ particularly icbms (intercontinental ballistic missiles) strategic surface-to-air missiles _ also displayed growth.''
``last year, however, gorbachev took several actions evidently intended lay groundwork future military cuts,'' report said.
key points gorbachev's plan cut military spending ``remain unclear,'' report said, may involve substantially larger cuts 500,000 troop reduction announced last december.
``indeed, estimates indicate reduce total defense budget 14.2 percent, soviets would go beyond cutbacks military programs specifically promised make.''
michael jackson obtained court order barring company selling claims bootleg beatles videotapes.
jackson, owns copyrights beatles songs, sued video wholesalers neptune sale videos, include tapes fab four concert new york's shea stadium washington, d.c. u.s. district judge garrett e. brown friday issued preliminary injunction sale videos pending outcome lawsuit.
jackson's attorneys argued tapes infringed copyrights, beatles fans would turned poor quality films would hurt jackson's investment decide market tapes himself.
video company argued beatles never protected films copyright fab four songs videos public domain.
songs tapes include ``i want hold hand,'' ``she loves you,'' ``yesterday,'' ``a hard day's night'' ``help.''
evangelist richard roberts said saturday travel soviet union next month 10-day visit.
son 71-year-old founder $500 million oral roberts ministry said estonian jazz society invited him.
``there way could say invitation.
golden door opportunity must walk through.
evangelist preaching gospel jesus christ communist country,'' said.
surgeon freed $250,000 bail attack ex-wife, john wayne's daughter.
dr. thomas a. gionis, 35, held without bail since april 4 arrest beating aissa wayne, 33.
municipal judge susanne s. shaw ruled friday sufficient evidence link attack, also set bail.
gionis charged conspiring commit assault deadly weapon beating ms. wayne financier roger luby luby's estate oct. 3.
prosecutors linked two men allegedly hired attack two.
pomona orthopedic surgeon battling former wife custody 2-year-old daughter.
judge told gionis ``snapped'' gone ``off deep end'' result divorce custody fight.
helen hayes, mary tyler moore lauren bacall among first women inducted players, club performers writers, 100th anniversary celebration sunday.
mark twain charter member 1,000-member club, whose rolls included laurence olivier, gregory peck, frank sinatra, jack lemmon jose ferrer, current president.
players, anticipating supreme court decision upheld anti-discrimination law non-private clubs around city, voted 1987 admit women.
change delayed club could renovated.
tony randall received $100,000 donation help buy refurbish theater seedy 42nd street classical repertory group.
donation eagle snacks, randall spokesman.
randall friday said money would help fulfill dream transforming rundown movie house showcase acting company.
said bids prepared two theaters, plans buy one.
heart-wrenching news distant ocean, vigil names dead trickle in, playing taps fallen _ new townspeople here, cheer navy's victories cry defeats.
none 47 sailors killed gun turret explosion wednesday battleship uss iowa listed area hometown.
yet people claiming _ done many times death strikes norfolk-based ship.
``there isn't `us' `them.'
even tragedy strikes far away here, felt here.
ship part community,'' said mayor joseph leafe.
overnight, norfolk-newport news-hampton metropolitan area 1.3 million became small town.
schools, shops, bars streets, topic conversation iowa _ aboard, word, helping, lost someone.
``it's hard find anybody walk life area didn't start navy,'' said donald smith, sociologist old dominion university.
``with area's long history world's largest naval facility, impact goes deeper.
young people get navy, seem stay around here.''
military's influence seen throughout hampton roads, area james elizabeth rivers meet chesapeake bay known.
``the economic relationship military civilian sectors close one,'' said wolfgang pindur, director research old dominion's college business public administration.
``the military major employer.
isolates us downward trends economy.''
area 138,000 active military men women 65,000 military retirees, according government statistics.
annual payroll federal spending area $5.53 billion.
newport news shipbuilding, building nuclear aircraft carriers, state's biggest private employer.
comparison, tourism, area's major industry, brings $1.3 billion.
civilian-military economic marriage seems sweet one, socially always friction.
tales ``sailors dogs keep grass'' signs appearing world war ii.
local officials say signs never existed, did, someone's poor idea joke.
navy men, however, denied service bars made pay exorbitant cover charges.
every case, practice became known, ceased.
``it's love-hate relationship, especially younger military men.
lot kids town kids ... sometimes get trouble,'' said pindur.
``it's pain sometimes kids running loose, but, time, appreciation do.
job protect us.''
smith said friction based class differences.
``let's face it, majority navy kids lower-or working-class families,'' said.
``for them, navy way out.''
tension disappears times triumph tragedy.
``we navy community,'' pindur said.
``there deep empathy things happen navy folks.''
rev.
david lassalle, delivered short homily friday service organized city tribute dead, gestured toward workmen setting podium elizabeth river waterfront, police honor guard officers rehearsing entrance people quietly gathering.
``words don't always say enough, actions today ... perhaps say even didn't know faces names, men ours,'' said.
richard m. daley's march city hall defeating two blacks left black vote disarray many wondering whether daley's inauguration monday first first many.
daley, son last big-city bosses, ended blacks' six-year grip mayoralty soundly beating acting mayor eugene sawyer february's democratic primary alderman timothy evans six weeks later.
daley complete last two years second term city's first black mayor, harold washington, died 1987.
daley's father, richard j. daley, six consecutive terms.
whether younger daley long term may depend less actions whether black voters regroup splintering sawyer evans.
``we knew stakes time around let get away us once.
...
i'm taking dismal view things future,'' said lu palmer, influential black radio commentator political activist, ``i don't see possibility winning mayor's office back 1991, let's face it, daley gets foothold then,'' said, ``the office probably year 2000-and-something.''
election post-mortems centered low black turnout crippled sawyer evans, despite efforts former democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson behalf both.
ensuing debate among blacks centered whether spend time sidelines developing black independent party, palmer suggests, try rebuild multiracial coalition lifted washington power 1983 made first mayor since elder daley re-elected.
``the reason harold _ make mistake _ able graft liberal whites hispanics onto huge bloc,'' said clarence page, black member chicago tribune's editorial board.
``it doesn't tomorrow, blacks begin process looking candidate that.
... suggest sit sidelines wait numbers grow enough go alone ... short-sighted.''
city roughly equal numbers blacks whites, whites make 49 percent electorate, compared 43 percent blacks.
rose, veteran political strategist held top posts washington evans campaigns, said daley ``because lot white liberals people joined washington's reform movement willing give chance lot blacks didn't feel sufficient amount outrage didn't vote.''
``what daley make good campaign promises inclusive, racially ethnically, terms appointments contracts promote reform-minded legislation,'' rose said.
``if doesn't, movement better ready.''
two military space shuttle flights planned next summer delayed, one least three months, work shuttle columbia taking longer expected.
nasa said friday schedule become tight support missions still preserve october launch high-priority galileo flight jupiter.
discovery launch scheduled aug. 10 delayed least november.
columbia, july 1 launch target, launched early august, space agency said.
missions deploy classified defense department payloads.
unaffected friday's planned liftoff atlantis magellan-venus spacecraft board, first planet-bound payload scheduled release space shuttle.
schedule changes ripple effect launch dates later year, leaving nasa six instead goal seven shuttle launches year.
officials said planned oct. 12 liftoff atlantis jupiter-orbiting galileo spacecraft high-priority flight 40-day launch period jupiter earth aligned properly.
next line columbia's august mission.
come delayed discovery military flight, probably november, flight, probably december, columbia's crew deploy communications satellite retrieve science satellite orbiting since 1984.
mission discovery hubble space telescope, long awaited astronomers, slip present december launch slot 1990.
nasa said dates missions galileo flight determined later.
``nasa management become increasingly concerned work involved preparing orbiter columbia first flight three years taking long enough might endanger option launch galileo opening launch window,'' said shuttle chief richard h. truly.
``our overriding objectives situation protect galileo window fly columbia early can.''
following challenger explosion january 1986, shuttle fleet grounded 32 months three remaining orbiters underwent major modifications improve safety performance.
modified discovery made two flights since accident atlantis make second.
besides challenger-dictated changes, columbia, first shuttle veteran seven space trips, also undergo extensive alterations thermal protection tile system last one returned flight status.
columbia work taking longer planned shortage skilled engineers technicians process three shuttles simultaneously.
day lebanon's civil war began 15th year, 69 people killed wounded.
civilians.
casualties caused estimated 25,000 shells rockets fired christian moslem forces day, april 13.
figures indicate took 362 shells rockets inflict one casualty.
that's average daily battles mainly christian units lebanon's army, long fractured along sectarian lines, alliance syrian forces moslem druse militiamen.
costs syrian army $120,000 every time fires broadside one 40-barrel 240mm rocket launchers christian east beirut.
costs gen. michael aoun's christian army units lob similar number 155mm howitzer shells moslem zones.
shortage guns ammunition among lebanon's warring factions, well supplied regional powers use lebanon fight rivals proxy.
leftist moslem militias armed bankrolled syria, libya iran.
christian rivals get u.s.-made weapons iraq israel.
it's strange war.
ground assaults.
one gains territory loses it.
sides, deeply entrenched, hammer other, usually long-range weapons.
current round fighting, worst four years, started march 8.
since then, police count, 270 people killed nearly 1,000 wounded.
despite intensity shelling, 50 shells rockets minute falling worst barrages, casualty toll surprisingly low.
reason 14 years civil war factional bloodletting, lebanese developed sixth sense trouble near.
know head underground bunkers basements.
haven't developed sense, signal take cover theme song movie ``shaft'' radio.
isaac hayes tune always precedes flashes shells falling.
beirutis know side starts firing, retaliatory barrage inevitable.
big fuel depot christian side hit days ago, sending huge fireball destroying virtually lebanon's fuel supplies, radio advised everyone living near blazing facility get away case fuel tanks blew.
distraught christian mother three told rushed apartment family amid thud exploding shells nearby.
reached brother's house neighboring hazmieh district realized she'd left son neighbor.
three hours later, 10-year-old boy showed up.
walked three miles heavy shelling without scratch.
``those worst hours life,'' said young woman.
want identified, ``because husband works abroad don't want hear this.''
despite well-honed survival instincts, people sometimes caught guard.
young moslem named jamal killed shrapnel drove family home south beirut district ouzai west beirut elderly mother lull days ago, neighbors said.
25-year-old druse student, back west germany majored computer science, killed visited militia base manned fighters druse warlord walid jumblatt's progressive socialist party.
``we'd asked teach us use communications equipment,'' fighter said.
``a shell landed close standing killed.''
bunkers become second homes many families.
many beirutis, life underground austere cramped.
power plants hit shut fuel run out.
fires rage control water pumping system doesn't work, there's power.
several families often crammed reinforced basements days end, eating stockpiles canned food water, sleeping best light kerosene lamps candles.
well-off, bunker life almost comfortable.
fourteen christian families living adonis district east beirut constructed luxury two-story bunker apartment block.
one them, furniture store owner hanna breidi, fitted wall-to-wall carpets, 10 double beds, armchairs, refrigerators small gambling salon.
also two color television sets video recorders, radio telephones, operate independently generator.
video games children.
fridge stocked smoked salmon, hams, imported cheeses, steaks wine.
families' maids, mostly sri lankans filipinas, live first floor ground level.
congress may asked bail numerous corporations forced bankruptcy next recession excessive debt, chairman senate finance committee said saturday.
lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said study shows spectacular increase amount high-risk ``junk bond'' debt since 1980 makes worry possibility taxpayer bailout similar multibillion dollar rescue nation's troubled savings loans.
bentsen said library congress study ``tells us amount corporate debt going roof quality corporate debt going floor.''
1980, one 25 bonds investment grade; today one five, bentsen said.
corporate debt tripled since 1980.
``when see another recession _ ultimately _ you're going see recession deeper longer great increase debt highly leveraged corporations,'' said bentsen.
``and you'll see many going bankrupt you'll begin hear cries taxpayers going bailing like savings loan industry gives deep concern,'' bentsen said.
study said $30 billion junk bonds issued last three years, accounting 20 percent outstanding corporate debt.
bentsen said committee would examining way limiting attractiveness corporate debt.
pope john paul ii met saturday two senior churchmen cuba, whose communist government reportedly preparing extend official invitation first-ever papal visit.
vatican said pope met 20 minutes archbishop jaime lucas ortega alamino havana, president cuban bishops' conference, bishop mariano vivanco valiente matanzas.
listed private audience, details released.
vatican officials said last week envoy cuban president fidel castro expected vatican soon.
miami herald, citing religious sources cuba, reported jose felipe carneado, director cuban communist party's office religious affairs, would travel rome formal invitation pope visit cuba.
cardinal roger etchegaray, top vatican official visited cuba late december, reported ``inequivocal signs'' improvement church-state relations said discussed possibility papal visit.
miami herarld said sources suggested papal visit would scheduled sometime 1990 1991.
cuba officially atheist since communist revolution 30 years ago, holy see vatican maintained diplomatic relations.
last month, pope applauded improvements church's ability carry mission cuba made mention possible visit.
january, castro said pope welcome cuba appreciated entire population ``as high-profile influential international leader.''
six soldiers died saturday stolen vehicle swerved road plunged river, police said.
accident took place dawn town puente duero, miles outside north-central city valladolid.
driver apparently lost control land-rover approached bridge, police said.
victims, ages 18 21, completing obligatory military service army's center artillery ammunition maintenance valladolid, center spokesman said.
valladolid municipal police said land-rover reported stolen friday.
communist rebels claimed responsibility saturday killing u.s. army colonel advised country's military, officials fearing attacks bolstered security u.s. forces.
philippine troops near six u.s. military installations country reinforced put maximum alert immediately col. james ``nick'' rowe slain friday, according gen. renato de villa, philippine army's chief staff.
rowe's filipino driver wounded.
communist assassins stolen car sprayed rowe's vehicle bullets way work suburban quezon city.
killers escaped.
51-year-old rowe, prisoner war vietnam, served chief ground forces division joint u.s.-military advisory group, provides training logistical support philippine military.
rowe, native mcallen, texas, decorated vietnam war veteran held cage five years viet cong escaped 1968.
wrote book ordeal titled, ``five years freedom.''
communist new people's army general command claimed responsibility assassination statement delivered saturday news agencies.
statement threatened attacks united states continues back president corazon aquino's fight 20-year communist insurgency.
``the death col. rowe signifies firm commitment revolutionary forces continue military actions u.s. personnel installations, manifestations arrogant trampling u.s. imperialists filipino people's independence sovereignty,'' statement said.
u.s. navy ordered additional security 1,000 sailors flagship uss blue ridge 7th fleet.
ship arrived friday four-day manila port call.
lt. mike andrews, fleet's spokesman, said sailors told travel groups avoid dark alleys.
filipino soldiers used bomb-sniffing dogs saturday check luggage manila airport, fearing terrorists might try plant bombs departing planes.
u.s.
ambassador nicholas platt called killing ``cowardly'' act, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said u.s. authorities would help government search killers.
date set memorial services flying rowe's body back united states.
killing came five days rebels announced ``determined make u.s. imperialism pay dearly continuing stay bases escalating intervention people's affairs.''
statement issued claim reponsibility bombing u.s. communications station northern province benguet april 9.
one hurt.
october 1987, rebels killed three americans filipino outside clark air base, 50 miles north manila.
authorities later increased security u.s. bases civilian offices philippines.
de villa said additional precautions needed rowe's killing created ``a new problem us, terrorism foreign nationals.''
six u.s. installations, include clark subic bay naval station, occupied 40,000 soldiers, civilian workers, dependents.
100,000 americans live country.
resentment toward u.s. forces spread beyond rebel army recent years.
agreement allowing u.s. bases remain extended last year 1991 heavy opposition protesters lawmakers.
olympic airways' flight ground attendants defied court order grounded national carrier saturday 24-hour strike.
spokesman airline said flights canceled normal schedules would resumed sunday.
olympic's pilots flight engineers join walkout unable fly without attendants, said spokesman, requested anonymity.
attendants seeking overtime additional pay night flights.
strikers ignored court order obtained airline friday forbade walkout threatened fine possibly jail participants.
strikers' demands met, airline spokesman said, union threatened start five-day walkout monday.
week easter holy week greek orthodox christians, celebrate easter sunday april 30, many airline's flights long sold out.
heavy diet wagner's ``ring cycle'' poison, metropolitan opera antidote that's easy swallow _ ``elixir love'' superstars luciano pavarotti kathleen battle.
donizetti's comic masterpiece _ dashed amazing two weeks _ made first appearance season friday night standing-room-only crowd.
performed four times final two weeks season, met's attention devoted new staging wagner's four-part ``der ring des nibelungen.''
luckily, fading still charming 1960 production nathaniel merrill robert o'hearn practically runs itself, like windup clock.
music effervescent plot foolproof, audience guaranteed good time, even performance never quite sparkles should.
pavarotti started career singing light tenor roles like nemorino, bumbling country bumpkin tries win heart true love drinking magic potion.
he's gone tackle heavier parts _ lost luster process _ role remains favorite.
though he's always agreeable performer, pavarotti top vocal form friday night, straining notes caressing them.
big second-act aria, ``una furtiva lagrima,'' drew usual feverish ovation fans, truth moderately soothing ear.
miss battle, heroine adina, took warm up, first sounding oddly detached recent assignments met.
intermission, became animated produced rich, full tone along famous silvery high notes.
good hear doctor dulcamara, traveling quack arrives balloon, sung firm, booming voice bass paul plishka displayed.
often part given aging singer must rely comic business cover inability get notes across.
less effective leo nucci sergeant belcore, nemorino's rival love adina.
modest baritone couldn't hold high-powered vocal company.
marcello panni, conducted pavarotti miss battle opera central park last summer, making house debut didn't quite act together.
orchestra sounded ragged times, singers, especially pavarotti, tended go way tempos concerned.
dozens military aircraft diverted civilian duty haul 50,000 tons farm produce, construction equipment, goods around country year, official report said.
report friday tass news agency gave reason move.
however, said military planes would transporting southern fruit vegetables northern cities, including moscow leningrad.
cities suffer chronic shortages goods.
military aircraft occasionally used civilian duty past.
helped deliver equipment relief workers 1986 chernobyl nuclear accident armenian earthquake december, tass said.
new resolution ordering aircraft carry civilian cargoes adopted council ministers, news agency said.
tass said 60 military transport planes program include ruslan antheus jumbo jets, il-76 turbojets an-12 turboprops.
say program would begin long would last.
said jumbo jets ``are capable bringing practically point country large structural elements, building earth-moving machinery, cranes, excavators transport vehicles.''
col. gen. vyacheslav yefanov, chief military transport division, quoted tass saying combat readiness impaired.
``crews continue upgrade flying skills, improve maintenance aircraft master radio communications,'' yefanov said.
middle-aged white woman david duke sweatshirt pleasantly enthusiastic.
``he's fair play all,'' said ex-ku klux klan leader come hear.
``right it's like we've become minority need someone something.''
duke, made jump radical fringe elected official, points people proof message becoming mainstream.
leader national association advancement white people, duke seat louisiana legislature talking high birthrate among unwed welfare women claiming whites victimized civil rights laws.
``i think spoke loud lot people say around dinner table,'' said.
``people impressed ideas voted despite controversy background.''
duke alone thinking.
much says echoed opposed throughout career.
``the david duke election signal sour mood resentment part whites long time developing,'' said irwin suall, director fact-finding anti-defamation league b'nai b'rith.
``there perception blacks favored expense whites, merely employment status media.''
dismiss duke's slim, 200-vote victory anomaly; suburban new orleans district 99 percent white.
suall trackers racial tension believe disparate events, like duke's election rise racist skinhead subculture, warning signs taken seriously.
``these people events represent something larger,'' said chip berlet, researcher political research associates cambridge, mass.
``they like canaries mines telling us undercurrent people unhappy.''
unhappiness, says berlet others, runs long deep.
result economic changes nibbled away blue-collar union tradition; fear drugs crime; perception civil rights programs like affirmative action unfair whites, general hopelessness within white working class sees shrinking power society.
shopping mall edge duke's district, white woman 30s offered opinion declined give name: ``you see black power black pride helping blacks economically guess started good intentions.
it's right whites lose jobs it's fair you're called racist complaining it.''
difficult measure mood.
polls show american public far tolerant racial differences integration programs was.
michael mckeon, pollster worked democratic congressional campaign committee, said standard surveys ask yes-no questions can't plumb depth individual attitudes.
mckeon said phone surveys, involve dialogue subjects, show ``big time disenchantment.''
``it's nothing put number on, resentment lower middle class, children, aren't going better were,'' said.
``if ask, `are mad kid didn't get scholarship black kid did?'
they're going say no.
talk you're going see resentment woven fabric thoughts.''
civil rights trenches, like curt koehler, organizer chicago commission human relations, note simmering anger, especially among young whites.
``a growing number white people 20s feel short end stick,'' said koehler, tries defuse racial tension blue-collar neighborhoods chicago's southwest side, area seen klan rallies violence skinheads.
koehler said lower middle-class white bastion secure union job crumbling.
time, disenchanted see growing black middle class moving believe result favored government treatment.
``a black way might chance buy home neighborhood young white kid saw job leave,'' said.
``the anger placed black folks affirmative action.''
beyond economics issue group identity pride.
higher profile minorities stage, film television screen gives whites, already worried status, sense importance society diminishing.
berlet noted relatively blacks appear tv, numbers increased rapidly representation seem disproportional.
``blacks make 15 percent population maybe 4 percent tv,'' said.
``but whites see ... black faces televison, think they're taking over.''
gregg, 20-year-old atlanta skinhead declined give last name, complained bitterly sees ``black propaganda.''
``i watching television blacks sitting around, telling everybody blacks invented blacks invented that.
abunch lies,'' said.
bert, fellow skinhead, sees concepts black pride black history coming expense white identity.
``white heritage taught school.
it's like you're supposed ashamed white they're teaching black heritage full force,'' said.
``they completely downplay role whites country.''
frustrations blossom acts racial violence koehler seen chicago neighborhoods.
``or,'' said, ``these people vote david duke belief protect mine.''
whether translates election candidates similar ideologies debated pulsetakers society.
martin lipset, stanford university sociologist, thinks white rights candidates may elected local office, ``but they're dead ambitions go further.''
duke, however, believes first tap sentiment grow.
``i think beginning time see candidates discuss things,'' said.
``a candidate doesn't carry political baggage carry discusses issues win.''
syrian forces fired rockets port jounieh saturday thousands fleeing christians waited ships carry safety, police said.
casualties reported 122mm soviet-designed grad rockets exploded around jounieh, christians' escape route beleaguered enclave.
rockets hit area around coastal highway running north ancient port byblos.
christian sources reported one unidentified ship slipped port.
several small freighters unknown cargoes reached christian zone recent days.
iraq, syria's main arab rival, supplying weapons ammunition christians.
saturday's salvos came relative lull battles syrians, aided moslem druse allies, mainly christian units army commander gen. michel aoun.
police count, 270 people killed nearly 1,000 wounded ferocious artillery rocket exchanges began march 8.
police reported estimated 4,000 christians gathered jounieh, 12 miles north beirut, awaiting ferry cyprus take safety.
4,000-ton baroness m, one two ferries carried 12,000 christians cyprus fighting, anchored jounieh friday night.
ship took estimated 1,200 people shuttled jounieh small boats without incident.
cypriot shipping officials said baroness would make trip jounieh sunday.
beirut's moslem voice nation termed syrian rocketing ``warning ships stay away besieged enclave.''
``it persist long blockade imposed aoun perists,'' said.
current spasm fighting triggered aoun, seeking restore state authority fractured government, blockaded illegal ports run moslem militias.
310-square-mile christian enclave ringed three landward sides hostile forces, 1 million christians trapped inside.
despite shelling jounieh, major exchanges moslem christian regions reported three days.
believed lull would last.
ad-diyar daily quoted justice minister nabih berri, leader syrian-backed shiite moslem amal militia, warning: ``the lull last ... long don't political settlement.''
television station run lebanese forces, christians' main militia, advised christians trapped enclave aid casualties event new shelling.
``keep nerves control,'' said.
``parks cars way don't block ambulances.
take cover nearest bomb shelter, underground bunker building entrance.''
soviet deputy foreign minister arrived beijing saturday talks aimed overcoming problems facing first soviet-chinese summit 30 years, sources said.
soviet president mikhail s. gorbachev scheduled come china may 15.
two sides difficulty agreeing joint communique issued visit's end, said eastern european source, speaking condition anonymity.
hoped visit deputy foreign minister igor rogachev soviet union clear difficulties, specifically soviet chinese position vietnam war cambodia.
difficulties concern vision nation future sino-soviet ties.
beijing played significance growing ties moscow, soviets like portray improving rapport chinese foreign relations coup.
one indication occurred date gorbachev's visit announced february.
soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze ended visit china feb. 3 announcing date.
press conference day, chinese official denied date set.
china waited two days announce date may 15.
rogachev arrived saturday afternoon, chinese source said.
visit planned time postponed unknown reasons.
china soviet union support vietnamese troop pullout cambodia september.
also support end chinese aid cambodia's anti-vietnamese guerrillas.
vietnam invaded cambodia late 1978 replace pro-chinese khmer rouge pro-vietnamese puppet government.
china soviet union apparently still differ composition transitional government, would rule elections replace current vietnamese-installed government.
last soviet leader visit beijing nikita khrushchev 1959.
donald trump playing real-life game monopoly atlantic city real estate days.
less month, developer announced two property deals would put command lucrative five-block area center boardwalk.
new jersey regulatory authorities say look closely implications deal deciding whether approve it.
financial genius deal two acquisitions would taken rolls casinos converted luxury hotels comply state law, thus enhancing market share gambling spots trump already owns.
new jersey law three-casino limit per owner.
trump already owns trump plaza, trump castle soon-to-be-opened taj mahal.
converting elsinore's atlantis casino hotel former penthouse casino site hotels would benefit gaming hall middle, trump plaza, said marvin b. roffman, analyst investment firm janney montgomery scott inc. ``when take casino site market, people sharing pie share bigger pieces,'' said.
``donald trump took important five blocks atlantic city _ caesars begins atlantis ends.
four properties going share space there's going two.''
trump's atlantis purchase subject regulatory approval.
financially ailing casino controlled state-appointed conservator.
``there's good deal concern anyone amasses much real estate among casino-zoned properties,'' said anthony parrillo, director state division gaming enforcement.
``the public policy state foster competition atlantic city marketplace, public policy undue economic concentration.
``the question boils incremental holdings mr. trump _ anyone, matter _ enough enough?''
parrillo said.
``that's difficult issue assess legislature didn't give precise formula three-license rule.''
time, regulators must consider prerogative entrepreneur enter agreements, well best use property local market able handle, said.
casino control act, parrillo said, ``wants healthy mix competitors _ diversified multi-dimensional.''
martin danzinger, former member casino control commission, said issue whether trump become powerful enough ``to become government own.''
``among casino employees, control 20 percent industry,'' danziger said.
``if reason state close up, impact would industry?
much impact would decides walk away gaming tables?
state debating questions _ probably are.''
roffman said trump's purchase atlantis ``a bargain price'' $63 million; trump bought former penthouse site $56 million.
deals completed, ``trump control almost mile boardwalk frontage,'' roffman said.
``that's powerful.''
former government leader died poisoning resigning midst corruption scandal buried national shrine revolutionary heroes, officials said saturday.
maurice nyagumbo, government's senior minister political affairs, entombed sunday heroes' acre outskirts harare, government spokesman said.
nyagumbo, 64, died harare's main hospital thursday poisoning.
details available, police sources said investigating whether committed suicide.
founder party socialist president robert mugabe, controls government country's legal party.
nyagumbo ranked third hierarchy.
nyagumbo, longest serving political detainee former colony rhodesia, spent 21 years jail opposition white rule.
rhodesia became independent nation zimbabwe 1980, nyagumbo held key posts cabinet, 15-member politburo ruling party's central committee.
resigned government party posts april 14 found presidential inquiry involved racket involving illegal sales vehicles.
investigators found abused position acquiring 38 vehicles, mostly friends, state assembly plant.
nyagumbo denied wrongdoing stepped down.
despite scandal, government spokesman, commented condition anonymity, said mugabe declared nyagumbo national hero.
``his death robbed us man whose record revolutionary performance second none,'' president said friday.
nyagumbo's body lie state burial.
revolutionary shrine honors 27,000 zimbabweans died seven-year guerrilla war led independence.
san quentin prison, century one toughest places nation time, emptied virtually hardened criminals.
1,750 them, half population 137-year-old fortress held charles manson sirhan sirhan, sent new prisons throughout california part $5 billion prison expansion.
place minimum- medium-security prisoners, including many live trailers outside prison walls san quentin's fenced-in grounds little contact higher-risk inmates inside.
california's death row remains 252 prisoners, men, facing execution cyanide gas.
aside them, ``we lost almost hard-core (inmates),'' said prison spokesman cal white, unhappily.
``that housed desperate people california,'' said, pointing empty five-tier cellblock.
``now, it's temporary holding facility.''
concrete-and-steel compound ringed guard towers edge san francisco bay long depicted one america's toughest prisons.
inmates included sirhan, assassinated robert f. kennedy 1968, caryl chessman, convicted los angeles' ``red light bandit'' sex attacks 1948.
became best-selling author behind bars executed 1960.
past two years, highest-risk prisoners sent three new prisons.
manson, leader murderous cult perhaps notorious prisoner california, went new corcoran prison near fresno.
corcoran one eight prisons opened california since 1980.
state's prison population tripled since 75,000, state.
none older prisons affected san quentin.
outside, complex appears forbidding ever.
several buildings erected middle late 19th century _ one date 1857 chiseled front _ even recent structures decades old.
inside, authorities call san quentin's ``change mission'' quickly apparent.
addition holding medium- minimum-security inmates, serves reception center, new inmates sent orientation classification.
``the stress level dropped considerably past couple years,'' white said.
``we used kind incident every day.
wasn't uncommon `lockup' every month.
that's pretty much rarity.''
prison extensively remodeled, including $28 million overhaul old cellblock.
hospital, 55 years old newly refurbished, dental ward, spic-and-span suite smells powerfully disinfectant.
``they call `dr.
painless,''' said dr. glenn jamieson, bouyant, breezy man taken care prisoners' teeth 22 years.
calls ward ``the air-conditioned place prison ... good outside.''
despite changes, visitor never forgets san quentin steeped violence.
visitors go massive steel gates, guard warns possibility taken hostage adds state policy ``is never negotiate prisoner's freedom release hostages.''
officer adds grin, ``welcome san quentin!''
irish republican army saturday claimed responsibility killing 26-year-old taxi driver north belfast.
police said two women cab injured.
william thompson belfast believed slowing drop passengers friday night overtaken another taxi masked man inside fired him, police said.
statement delivered news media, ira said information driver involved sectarian murders.
25th death year sectarian violence northern ireland, ira fighting end british rule.
member romanian rowing team asked italian authorities political asylum saturday, saying believed victim political persecution.
stefan tivai, 21, whose formal application political asylum forwarded foreign ministry, member romanian rowing team participating international meet nearby piedliluco lake.
athlete went foreigners office terni police filled form requesting political asylum.
cited ``political persecution'' romania reason.
tivai currently staying roman catholic charity organization terni, city 60 miles north rome.
former secretary state george p. shultz among six people honored saturday veterans group services veterans country.
american veterans world war ii, korea vietnam gave silver helmet peace award shultz, headed state department 6{ years reagan administration.
shultz cited ``contributions improved international relations.''
rep. gerald b. solomon, r-n.y., received silver helmet congressional award 10 years service senior republican house veterans affairs committee.
solomon moved rules committee year.
philip h. viall, lecturer southeastern massachusetts university north dartmouth, received silver helmet rehabilitation award work using computers help disabled.
co-founder share, society human advancement rehabilitation engineering.
jimmy crum, sports director wcmh-tv columbus, ohio, given special silver helmet 30 years leadership projects handicapped.
richard michel, owner tavern buffalo, n.y., given silver helmet humanitarianism award raising money hungry send cancer-striken children summer camp ``in highest traditions american way life.''
raymond l. hess youngstown, ohio, honored ``amvet year'' exceptional leadership.
life member group, held every office hometown post served state commander.
teen-ager abducted bus station raped two men five days escaped flagged car, kidnapped raped again, police said saturday.
15-year-old waiting april 16 greyhound terminal bus thousand oaks home taken house los angeles attacked, said sgt.
mario mojarro.
girl told police escaped friday night asked two men car take police.
instead, driven park east los angeles raped, said mojarro.
found park early saturday.
one men car arrested, sergeant said.
demonstrators dressed aerosal cans refrigerators raced church stairway saturday burst paper-covered hoop, symbolically depicting depletion earth's ozone layer.
crowd 1,000 people watched 20 costumed activists staged protest mark ``earth day,'' day environmental awareness called ecological groups worldwide.
demonstration held spanish steps, 137-step staircase trinita dei monti church.
organizers said demonstration re-enacted effects ozone layer chlorofluorocarbons, compounds used aerosol spray cans refrigerators.
ozone layer protects earth cancer-causing untraviolet light.
beniamino bonardi, national director environmental league italy, said demonstration sought publicize efforts make government ban use chlorofluorocarbons.
sen. phil gramm employed unusual tactics, including lawsuit, fight attempts federal auditors review 1984 campaign's financial records, government documents show.
gramm, agreed end 5-year dispute federal election commission paying $30,000 fine, gave version events last month move preempted public release documents case.
texan republican released settlement news organizations friday night, fec closed settlement final.
gramm spokesman larry neal said fec made ``final offer accept reject.
final action far concerned.''
acknowledging errors blaming inexperience volunteers, gramm described technical reporting violations.
although many instances involve reporting errors, fec audit also found campaign apparently accepted 151 separate contributions corporations totaling $10,890.
corporate contributions political campaigns forbidden texas federal laws.
fec documents case also reveal friends phil gramm committee fought agency's investigation federal campaign violations tactics included lawsuit commission u.s. district court dallas members individuals.
committee also questioned subpoenas issued fec obtain key papers.
one instance, campaign committee insisted piece-by-piece inventory 500,000 committee documents sought fec.
``this procedure would expensive time-consuming audit itself,'' according report fec's general counsel.
neal said disputes early auditing process largely due ``a bureaucratic procedure general counsel's office attempted impose.''
said agency one point sent letter simply said: ```please send half million documents washington immediately.
thank you.'
obviously, felt inventories appropriate necessary challenged points that.
``in essence, felt bureaucrats fec dispatched handle audit high-handed lowdown,'' neal said.
fec spokesman scott moxley said often agency must go court course investigation, ``and even less often commission sued, especially commissioners sued individual capacity.''
moxley said average fec investigation lasts eight months, although cases taken longer.
``so something draws four years unusual.''
described fine one largest ever congressional race.
yet statement accompanying release settlement, campaign treasurer donald r. white said: ``the campaign made consistent costly effort five years comply fully spirit substance fec's regulations.''
white said crush 70,000 individual contributions totaling $10 million ``defeated efforts volunteer campaign workers adequately screen process incoming mail.''
corporate contributions question slipped ``normal screening process undetected checks drawn corporate bank accounts readily identifiable such,'' white said.
151 prohibited contributions, 127 appear refunded within 30 days, fec counsel's report said.
auditors said found one instance campaign committee ``made refund apparent corporate contribution, voided refund check contributor stated intended write check personal account rather corporate account.''
high-ranking government official said saturday nato exclude possibility eliminating short-range nuclear rockets based german soil.
remark education minister juergen moellemann could fuel simmering disagreement west germany united states short-range nuclear weapons.
west germany expected press united states agree early superpower talks reducing weapons.
united states britain strongly opposed early talks, contending warsaw pact superiority conventional weapons requires western nuclear deterrent short-range arsenals.
chancellor helmut kohl also wants north atlantic treaty organization postpone decision modernizing weapons 1991 1992.
speaking meeting free democratic party duisburg, moellemann reiterated west german government's position went even farther, saying nato warsaw pact exclude possibility eliminating short-range nuclear weapons.
moellemann leading member free democrats, junior partners kohl's coalition government.
``depending (disarmament) negotiations results concrete realities, decided 1992 whether need nuclear, land-based short-range rockets,'' moellemann said.
moellemann also called nato make ``wide-ranging'' disarmament initiatives react east bloc makes disarmament proposals.
west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher defense minister gerhard stoltenberg scheduled fly washington monday talks u.s. officials.
expected press united states negotiations soviets reducing number short-range lance weapons, range 60 miles mostly based west germany.
federal jury weighed guilt innocence oliver l. north part second day saturday, took rest weekend former presidential aide awaited fate 12 felony counts stemming role iran-contra affair.
nine women three men, guided deliberations 95-page set instructions district judge gerhard a. gesell, arrived bright early saturday resume work 18-by-12 room sealed second floor u.s.
courthouse.
clues progress time quit 12:10 p.m. return downtown hotel relax, constant supervision u.s. marshals, resuming work monday.
jurors, asked judge begin 9:30 morning, driven van courthouse 8:20 a.m. started work 8:45.
jury deliberated six hours friday.
far, requests copies gesell's instructions _ one juror _ pencils, paper, paper clips emanated jury room, along question friday, ``is lunch 12?''
got materials, early lunch.
writing supplies remained concern saturday.
unsigned note covered jury's return documents court safekeeping ``p.s.
: please sharpen pencils.
need pencils, highlighters.''
jurors allowed family visits, marshals' supervision, hotel sunday.
jurors forbidden talk case, even among themselves, jury room.
north's trial, nearly three months long, first stemming late 1985-early 1986 sale arms iran _ 270 percent markup price _ siphoning proceeds nicaraguan rebels.
three men, former national security adviser john poindexter, businessman albert hakim, former air force maj. gen. richard secord awaiting separate trials.
another former national security adviser, robert c. mcfarlane, pleaded guilty received two years' probation $20,000 fine withholding information congress episode.
north, former marine lieutenant colonel served deputy mcfarlane poindexter, charged 12 felony counts, including withholding information congress, lying attorney general edwin meese iii activities, destroying altering documents, misusing money entrusted accepting illegal gratuity _ $13,800 security system home.
north, decorated vietnam war veteran, testified mere ``pawn chess game played giants'' following orders throughout, even action officer major elements iran-contra scheme.
``i stepping in,'' said.
``i brought ... basically handoff _ `you've got ball, run it.'''
independent prosecutor john w. keker told jury ``you heard lot courage trial.
there's another kind courage: courage, admit wrong; courage admit personal responsibility, courage admit guilt appropriate.
admitted things; it's time him.''
instructions, gesell set specific guidelines jury's consideration specific count.
example, count north obstructed congress making false misleading statements two house committees, gesell said, ``a false misleading answer question may taken obstruction made corruptly, specific intent impede investigation ... must established beyond reasonable doubt defendant acted specific purposes obstructing impeding.''
similarly, four counts north made false statements congress meese, gesell said jury could convict convinced ``when defendant made caused made false statement representation, acting willfully, is, deliberately purpose mistake, inadvertence accident.''
document destruction charge, judge said jury could convict believes north altered destroyed materials ``with knowledge illegality conduct.''
``the defendant know exact terms law, knew prohibited, departmental agency rule regulation, destroying official records.''
convict north accepting illegal gratuity _ security system _ gesell said jury must first satisfied north ``specifically intended receive security system past future official act acts, reasons wholly unrelated official employment.''
charges carry penalties five years prison $250,000 fines upon conviction.
one charge punishable maximum 10 years, one three years one two years _ total possible punishment 60 years fines $3 million.
jogger raped bludgeoned gang running wild central park remained coma saturday eight teen-agers awaited arraignment charges attempted murder.
28-year-old wall street investment banker, left dead attackers wednesday night, critical condition life-support systems, said metropolitan hospital administrator julio aguirre.
woman's family, arrived pennsylvania, kept vigil bedside, aguirre said.
doctors said next days critical recovery massive head brain injuries.
early saturday, police arrested eight suspects, ages 14 17, charged adults attempted murder, rape assault.
police said teen-agers jumped woman bushes used pipe rock batter unconscious attack, final act gang's night ``wilding'' _ street term random pack violence.
30 teen-agers went two-hour rampage park nine people beaten terrorized.
jogger found unconscious 3{ hours later lost three-quarters blood.
suspects arraigned late saturday sunday.
solidarity leader lech walesa predicted saturday newly legalized labor movement dwindle gives rise splinter groups growing political pluralism poland.
speaking news conference end three-day visit italy, also praised president bush's proposed aid poland voiced support economic reforms soviet union.
``from solidarity, economic political organizations born,'' said walesa, strong proponent pluralism.
``solidarity moment huge, become smaller growth organizations.
logical course events.''
poland's communist government last week lifted ban solidarity agreed free elections new chamber parliament.
solidarity crushed martial law 1981 later outlawed.
government seeking support solidarity aid west restore poland's shattered economy.
heyday, union claimed 10 million members 18 million-member polish work force.
coinciding official recognition solidarity, bush administration announced $1 billion economic aid program poland.
speaking interpreter, walesa called program ``a great step forward taken mr.
bush.''
``we ask europe world help poland travel road development.
laid foundations, don't succeed, responsibility also yours,'' said.
union leader reiterated support liberal reforms soviet leader mikhail gorbachev.
asked solidarity's contacts opposition east bloc countries, walesa said labor movement open ties groups.
added, ``we don't want disturb anyone create obstacles perestroika.''
``perestroika'' gorbachev's program social political reforms.
walesa, 1983 nobel peace prize, indicated planned visit countries ``ambassador solidarity'' gave details.
came italy seeking western economic investment poland blessing pope john paul ii, pole, country's new political course.
also met italian political leaders union officials, invited make trip.
later saturday, walesa flew back warsaw.
planned meet sunday opposition committee naming candidates parliamentary elections june.
``steer course 359,'' skipper tells swing rudder left 10 degrees wait bow 800-foot tanker move slowly port.
one problem: gets course 359 simulated ship keeps right going.
wild spin wheel opposite direction gives moment calm, realization overcorrected ship headed direction.
glacier-like handling oil tankers problem pilots boston harbor alaska's prince william sound.
one reason instructors massachusetts maritime academy scoff coast guard commandant paul yost's suggestion child could steer tanker alaskan waters exxon valdez ran aground spilled 10.1 million gallons oil.
recent turn helm imaginary tanker proved reporters, children, wholly unqualified guide floating oil fields port.
year-old, $800,000 simulator full-scale tanker bridge.
array computer video equipment projects realistic view harbor day, night, twilight fog.
foreground, hundreds ``feet'' away, prow 80,000-ton tanker, nearly long much lighter exxon valdez.
stand virtual duplicate type wheel rudder control stand found ships.
front me, shipmaster, academy professor jerome mcgourthy, stands compass gives orders another professor, thomas bushy, serving chief mate, looks shoulder.
``driving ship like piloting airplanes: hours hours boredom intermittent moments terror,'' bushy says ship moves toward channel 9 knots.
later bushy programs radar computer show prince william sound, watch radar blip identified exxon valdez passes approximates course 987-foot, 211,000-ton ship reef made valdez infamous.
still mystery valdez disaster ship veered two miles course bligh reef.
miscalculation location reef might left valdez time respond.
supertanker travels thousands feet executes full turn; emergency stop take miles water.
radar screen, bushy brings exxon valdez close reef, marked buoy, tries avoid it.
``we gave hard right rudder we're well beyond buoy we're probably aground now'' reaction time required loaded tanker like valdez, bushy says.
four-year academy trains 550 students simulators ships awards bachelor's degrees marine engineering navigation.
graduates typically go work maritime industry goast guard military.
terror bushy speaks seems hard imagine stable deck maritime academy _ computer operator switches video simulator night mode clear view channel approach becomes jumble lights.
grouping seemingly stationary green, red white lights means nothing me, superior officers represents approaching ship.
soon distant lights passing swiftly port, scant 50 yards away _ close comfort.
evasive action tanker slow-motion maneuver; tanker operating would need mile go full ahead full stop, maneuver would swing control much 60 degrees.
ship would continue move forward five lengths making right-angle turn.
slowing might seem smart thing novice do.
5 knots, tanker responds poorly turn susceptible wind current.
going slow can't quickly corrected.
one point, mcgourthy increases speed compensate sloppy steering.
``i kicked speed five minutes ago we're one knot,'' says.
number oil tankers dwindled several hundred recent years 3,180, said arthur mckenzie tanker advisory center new york.
average cargo rise, raising stakes navigating properly.
exxon valdez accident, said capt.
geoff motte, academy's vice president, ``an error judgment.
that's simulators cure.
cram week kind experience would take years get sea.''
commanders academy scratch heads trying figure valdez ran aground.
refuse second-guess crew without knowing facts.
``i don't believe there's shipmaster afloat, including me, wouldn't admit close shaves,'' motte said.
``i've never collision never grounding, i've come close.''
i, skipper.
i.
president hussain muhammad ershad saturday offered amnesty tribal rebels fighting autonomy southern bangladesh surrendered arms within month, official said.
ershad made offer addressing public meeting town khagrachari, 110 miles southeast dhaka, president's press secretary, toab khan, said.
ershad also offered rebels limited autonomy within country's constitution promised hold elections tribal region, khan said.
president said rebels surrender arms may 20 given amnesty offered financial help.
tribal rebels, blamed 4,000 killings 14-year-old bush war, rejected offer limited autonomy last year.
rebels mostly buddhist oppose government's policy settling moslem bengali people central bangladesh region, chittagong hill tracts.
tracts encompass 8,125 square miles hilly jungles border india.
vietnamese family reunited u.s. admiral saved lives dumping $10 million worth helicopters sea could land small plane deck aircraft carrier.
south vietnamese maj. bung lee, wife five children crammed single-seat cessna o-1 bird dog escape homeland overrun communist forces april 1975.
appeared would unable land uss midway south china sea flight deck filled helicopters used evacuate saigon.
rear adm lawrence chambers, retired, ordered deck cleared.
``his decision priceless,'' lee said.
``without decision would today.''
lee chambers reminisced landing u.s.
naval aviation museum, tiny plane ut display friday.
another retired rear admiral, magruder h. tuttle, bought plane undisclosed price 13 years ago donated museum pensacola naval air station.
lee, waiter polynesian restaurant walt disney world; wife, van, electronics worker, four children came winter park home dedication ceremony.
chambers said worried moment destroying choppers, ``the situation desperate.''
lee flown viet cong gunfire dense fog, heading sea without knowing ahead.
plane miles shore running low fuel spotted midway, saved 3,000 refugees.
lee radio, attempted drop note onto deck asking permission land.
said afraid fly low fear crew might think attack shoot plane.
three times dropped notes attached knife, boot key chain.
light blew away.
fourth attempt, note tied lee's survival pistol hit carrier's deck.
read: ``can move helicopters side, land runway, fly 1 hour more, enough time move.
please rescue me.
major bung-ly wife 5 child.''
chambers said wasn't space move uh-1 huey helicopters, ordered pushed overboard.
single-engine plane touched once, bounced rolled stop.
``the crew ecstatic see major make first carrier landing,'' chambers said.
foreign ministers iran iraq resumed direct peace talks saturday, appeared closer permanent truce negotiations began eight months ago.
iraqi foreign minister tariq aziz, leaving 2{ hours talks iranian counterpart, ali akbar velayati, said meeting brought reiteration clashing positions.
asked progress clearing obstacles, aziz replied, ``i cannot say yes.''
talks chaired u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, also two separate session past 24 hours iranian minister apparent attempt soften positions.
another session planned sunday, u.n. spokeswoman nadia younes said.
periodic u.n.-sponsored talks began five days aug. 20 cease-fire immediately stalled iran's demand full withdrawal iraqi troops iran iraq's insistence early dredging shatt-al-arab, sea outlet.
latest sessions started thursday joint ministerial meeting perez de cuellar said deal substantive issues.
talks tentatively scheduled recess monday, participants left open possibility extension.
president international committee red cross, cornelio sommaruga, said met perez de cuellar saturday expressed renewed concern prisoners war taken iran-iraq war must repatriated.
said priority continue given wounded sick pows, also captured children longest-held prisoners.
geneva-based icrc monitors compliance geneva conventions international humanitarian law.
icrc agreed supervise pow exchange last november, iran quickly pulled accord charging iraq reneged.
700 prisoners, mostly iranians, returned home since cease-fire took effect.
icrc says sides together hold 100,000 pows captured eight-year war.
house speaker jim wright's intervention federal s&amp;l regulators behalf texas businessmen strictly violate ethical standards, according house ethics committee, report provides inside peek truly hard-ball politics played nation's capital.
wright, according report ethics panel's general counsel, put ``hold'' bill late 1986 provide regulators $15 billion special fees industry close critically insolvent savings loan institutions, many texas.
period, wright meeting officials federal home loan bank board, regulates thrift industry, behalf four texas businessmen _ two democratic party fund-raisers _ deeply embroiled s&amp;l crisis.
despite split votes ethics committee clearing wright specific violations house rules meetings, special counsel richard phelan concluded wright exercised ``undue influence'' two cases trying get two bank board's toughest regulators fired.
several bank board officials told committee instances felt compelled bow wright's demands order prevent collapse s&amp;l insurance fund guarantees depositors losses $100,000.
time, bank board's federal savings loan insurance corp. (fslic) subsidiary $3 billion _ fraction would need _ rescue depositors 130 ``severely troubled'' s&amp;ls.
combination plummeting real estate values collapse oil belt economy plus ponzi schemes ``high flyer'' real estate developers jumped s&amp;l business, particularly texas loose banking regulations, made many outstanding loans worthless.
crisis developed, reagan administration may 1986 asked congress recapitalize s&amp;l insurance fund $15 billion financed special assessments member institutions.
bill put house calendar action sept. 29.
two weeks earlier _ sept. 15 _ wright, house majority leader, called bank board's then-chairman, edwin gray, office complain ``heavy-handed'' ``gestapo-like'' tactics bank board regional officials dallas.
sept. 2, wright met fort worth office craig hall, dallas-based real estate syndicator one largest owners real estate texas.
hall complained wright bank board inflexible, according ethics committee's report.
hall said could keep current hundreds millions dollars loans 20 s&amp;ls worsening texas economy.
arranged ``global'' repackaging deal one them, westwood savings loan los angeles, held approximately $200 million loans.
already severe loan losses, westwood control bank board representative.
bank board official concluded would less expensive federal insurance fund foreclose hall's property let go bankrupt rather accept restructuring package.
shortly sept. 2 meeting, wright called gray complain bank board representative running westwood asked ``if anything could this,'' according gray.
sept. 26, friday, hall, gray bank board officials learned wright put hold $15 billion s&amp;l insurance fund recapitalization scheduled house action following monday.
three days later, gray replaced bank board's representative westwood.
bill put back house calendar oct. 6 passed next day.
wright's request, gray told ethics committee, ``i would taken corrective action, as, `you're going communicative, listen better, prepared.'''
gray said wright made specific threats used coercive terms.
time, gray said convinced asked remove bank board official overseeing westwood.
``anybody worked government long knows speaker _ soon speaker house representatives _ asking look it, it's anybody.''
shannon fairbanks, bank board's chief staff, told ethics committee gray agency officials felt extreme pressure bow request several others wright bill, different version, signed law 11 months later.
``ed (gray) believed posed choice,'' said.
``and choice was: craig hall significant problem system; say system needs money, going prepared give system money unless see evidence system capable responding; evidence provided responsive craig hall.''
result, said, bank board felt compelled compromise regulatory standards order obtain funds needed.
``throughout whole period, tormented, didn't like did,'' told ethics committee.
``i spent lot years growing talking theoretically means ends, end ability start close institutions adequate money.
means perversion system.''
phelan, ethics committee's counsel, said neither wright staff ever looked merits bank board's regulatory activities gave consideration legal bases actions.
phelan likened wright's actions ``blackmail'' said ``called reconsideration regardless legal justification.
blocking recapitalization bill call regarding hall constituted prohibited suggestion reprisal.''
august 1987, bank board finally received $10.8 billion recapitalization package, president reagan threatened veto amount less.
interim, cut $5 billion one point efforts house democratic whip tony coelho california u.s. league savings institutions, s&amp;l industry's biggest lobbying arm large source political campaign funds.
$38 billion government committed 1988 closing merging insolvent s&amp;ls, $25 billion involved institutions texas defaults loans thrifts states texas real estate ventures.
last week, senate approved s&amp;l bailout bill minimum estimated costs $126 billion _ two-thirds taxpayers _ next 10 years.
``we would today talking $126 billion problem passed $15 billion fslic recapitalization october 1986,'' sen. jake garn, r-utah former chairman senate banking committee, said opening debate last monday.
``i'm going insult anybody's intelligence saying $15 billion would solved problem, it's safe say problem would least half today,'' garn said.
``it would provided funds close lot brain-dead institutions continued make bad loans.''
despite widespread mob violence home, king hussein jordan seemed almost ebullient visit past week, reflecting view parties arab-israeli conflict may finally ready grapple seriously issues divide them.
hussein watched tumultuous politics region close almost long israel existed, senses possibilities peace rising.
``the conditions ripe they've never progress towards final comprehensive peace area,'' hussein said saturday cnn's ``evans &amp; novak'' program.
senior jordanian official told group american reporters thursday long hussein concluded talks president bush secretary state james a. baker iii king president saw eye-to-eye.
``his majesty president almost identical views almost every subject discussed,'' said official, asked quoted name.
mixed week hussein, least promise progress toward middle east peace settlement one hand coupled somewhat incongruously rampaging rioters home protesting recent price increases.
hussein's visit capped intensive period middle east diplomacy bush administration.
preceded israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir egyptian president hosni mubarak.
hussein bush known years, mutual regard evident public statements deferential manner treated hours spent together wednesday, culminating glittering white house state dinner.
senior jordanian official said believes new administration may pursue evenhanded policy middle east reagan administration.
said likely united states perceived ``by sides (arabs israelis) taking genuine interests sides consideration.''
aside american president perceived better suited advance peace process, official also said palestinine liberation organization come long way time refusing negotiation, recognition peace israel _ ``the three noes.''
plo, said, retreated points now, ``has accepted american stipulations.''
beyond that, added, new plo position ``has overwhelming arab support.''
hussein encouraged u.s.-plo dialogue began last december similarity views united states soviet union possibility u.n.-sponsored international conference middle east.
official critical shamir, suggesting ``our three noes'' replaced shamir's ``five noes.''
include, said, recognition plo, independent palestinian state, withdrawal occupied territories, withdrawal jerusalem international conference middle east.
still, official said shamir seems chastened 17 months turmoil west bank gaza strip may flexible before.
shamir says ``no option excluded'' negotiations final settlement, suggesting retreat previous position israel opposes surrender territory exchange peace, official said.
none parties conflict rejected outright shamir's call palestinian elections territories initial step broader peace process.
parties concur negotiations objective elections next steps beyond stage en route final settlement fraught difficulties.
nonethelss, jordanian official described it, ``the important thing start process.
status quo possible maintain.
advocating status quo means advocating deterioration situation.''
iraq said saturday building sophisticated soviet-designed battle tank developing new long-range missile part major program beef weapons industry.
maj. gen. amer sa'di, chief iraq's military industries, also said iraq negotiating france build advanced mirage 2000 fighters four aircraft companies build warplanes.
also disclosed soviet union participate iraqi arms exhibition begins april 28.
sa'di, speaking reporters preview weapons show, said soviet-designed t-72 battle tank iraq building equipped sophisticated combat systems.
sa'di said first tank production line centerpiece five-day exhibition, showcase iraq's rapidly developing domestic arms industry.
exhibition staged temporary truce iran iraq drags ninth month agreement permanent peace sight.
soviet union, iraq's main army supplier, provided baghdad hundreds t-72s war.
widely used string iraqi victories forced iran accept u.n.-sponsored cease-fire took effect aug. 20.
sa'di said military also display new iraqi-made weapons exhibition.
``you see sophisticated, advanced missiles longer range better capabilities used iran,'' declared.
``many people going surprised put display show variety quality,'' said.
among displays soviet air force mig-29 fighter jets sukhoi su-24 su-25 fighter-bombers, said.
respected london-based flight international magazine reported december moscow supplied iraq unspecified number advanced su-25s.
powerful iraqi air force, key factor war, also took delivery mig-29s soviets last year.
sa'di noted soviet jets flown iraqi pilots stage air display exhibition.
first time iraqis acknowledged pilots capable handling advanced sukhois.
sa'di's disclosure soviets participate exhibition came surprise.
soviets indicated earlier reluctant take part iran-iraq peace talks going on.
moscow improving relations iran recent months.
``the soviet military industry enterprises wanted participate, wait political decision wasn't taken last minute,'' diplomatic source said condition anonymity.
sa'di also said agreement france's dassault aircraft company produce supersonic mirage 2000 could reached later year.
france iraq's second-biggest arms supplier war sold hardware worth estimated $5 billion.
sa'di identify aircraft manufacturers said iraq negotiating.
judge oliver north trial, saying misunderstanding, saturday released 12 uncensored pages court transcript previously released large portions blacked court security officer.
associated press nine news organization filed motion u.s. district judge gerhard a. gesell friday asking uncut version transcript, closing remarks made open court wednesday north lawyer brendan sullivan.
heaviest deletions sullivan's references ``intercepts'' information tracked shipment hawk missiles iran 1985.
intercepts, sullivan said blacked portion, told white house officials ``where were, delivered, ocean got there.''
another point, sullivan said, materials distributed hand _ even sent messenger _ ``it guarded, closely held intelligence united states government.''
ordering documents' release, gesell said news media complaint arrived, ``the court unaware misunderstanding'' portions blacked out.
gesell, however, denied another news media request sealed stipulation top-secret intercepts iranian initiative collected 1985 1986 north's request national security agency.
stone returned grave sylvia plath, restoring married name vandals _ perhaps admirers _ repeatedly tried erase.
saturday, poet laureate ted hughes struck back recent criticism custody grave legacy wife, tormented american poet killed feb. 11, 1963 age 30.
``when first lettering set stone ... question mind get name plath it,'' hughes said letter printed saturday's edition independent.
``if followed custom, stone would inscribed sylvia hughes, legal name.
children, mother's name.''
but, added, ``i already well aware, 1963, achieved name, wished honor it.''
plath, born boston, posthumously honored pulitzer prize 1982.
estranged hughes time death, partisans accused smothering housework leaving another woman.
many poems intensely personal.
best-known ones, ``lady lazarus'' ``daddy,'' deal illness, suffering death.
hughes burned last volume journals, saying want son daughter ever read them.
said married name, set riveted lead letters, chiseled tombstone three times.
fourth attempt, stone removed contemplating new design.
however, said, found stone repaired last year engraver keeping agreed restored place near church st. thomas apostle village heptonstall.
stone bears name sylvia plath hughes line poetry: ``even amidst fierce flames golden lotus planted.''
sentence sanskrit ``i used tell low,'' hughes said.
controversy stirred earlier month julia parnaby university lancaster rachel wingfield university cambridge wrote guardian newspaper complaining lack marker grave.
``by failing replace headstone thus leaving plath's grave unidentifiable, place tradition women's literature denied work devalued,'' wrote.
long letter published thursday guardian, hughes attacked two women falsely claiming plath signed divorce papers.
``i great student fantasia obscured life death sylvia plath, far aware ms. parnaby wingfield first 26 years decide bit history needs rewritten,'' hughes wrote.
``there rather it.
perhaps ms. parnaby wingfield plead invent bit apocrypha, certain people accepting gospel time.
``if so, perhaps would explain sylvia plath's grave repeatedly vandalized.
ms. parnaby wingfield's wording mischievous falsehood read, mind, like incitement misguided enthusiasts desecrate grave afresh.''
hughes' letter independent took issue article ronald hayman, complained hughes sister kept ``a firm grip biographers,'' extent threatening withhold copyright material authors criticized hughes' family.
``mr. hayman tells us `nobody owns fact.'
hope us owns facts life,'' hughes wrote.
``otherwise you, reader, might suddenly find reinvented mr. hayman decided owns facts likes them.''
campbell soup co. heir john t. dorrance jr. rewrote last year tax law changed, eliminating trust could brought millions philadelphia museum art princeton university.
trust 1987 deleted dated june 1988, philadelphia inquirer reported saturday.
dorrance, biggest shareholder former chairman camden, n.j., company, died heart attack april 9 age 70.
father invented condensed soup.
previous will, income trust would benefited museum, princeton st. george's school, prep school newport, r.i., newspaper reported.
income trust would continued 25 years.
trust would gotten bulk dorrance's estate, newspaper said, elaborate.
dorrance often included lists nation's richest people fortune estimated $1.5 billion.
new will, dorrance left nothing two schools, attended, newspaper said.
museum get two valuable pieces porcelain well $5 million dorrance pledged death.
estate divided equally among six grandchildren.
value specified will.
campbell spokesman scott rombach said saturday could confirm filed give details previous will.
sandra horrocks, spokeswoman museum, said saturday would comment.
princeton spokeswoman jacquelyn savani immediately return telephone message saturday seeking comment.
changed congress revoked ``generation-skipping'' estate tax break offered grandchildren wealthy people form large trusts provide income charities, newspaper said.
charitable groups lobbied congress revise tax break, arguing would lead fewer gifts.
princeton would received 50 percent income trust, museum 40 percent st. george's 10 percent, newspaper said.
dorrance chairman art museum board.
$5 million pledge biggest cash gift museum ever received.
``we thankful vast generosity given lifetime,'' said joseph rishel, museum curator 19th-century art.
value two pieces porcelain _ nearly life-size goats made meissen china early 18th century _ disclosed, rishel said figures ``fabulous, really spectacular, real showstoppers.''
army saturday barred israeli leftists carrying black flags mourning entering west bank village nahalin, site bloody raid border police killed five people.
also saturday, officials jerusalem's mukassed hospital said palestinian suspected collaborating israeli authorities died thursday stab wounds.
arab reports identified man musallam mahmoud shaheen, 40, said masked youths broke west bank home attacked suspected cooperating israel.
another suspected collaborator, 32-year-old palestinian woman, hospitalized broken limbs beaten least two days arab militants, army arab reports said.
occupied west bank gaza strip, 16 palestinians, including six children age 15, wounded clashes troops, arab hospital officials said.
army official confirmed five wounded.
throughout occupied lands, palestinians observed general strike called pro-plo leaders uprising.
shops shuttered transportation came halt.
gaza, activists blocked roads stones enforce strike.
israeli legislator yossi sarid led convoy 20 cars draped black flags nahalin, group stopped troops slightly mile outside village.
sarid said soldiers told area closed civilians.
``it's possible block entrance, can't block message total opposition massacre happened village,'' sarid left-wing citizens rights movement told associated press.
preliminary results army investigation showed border police fired indiscriminately april 13 search-and-arrest raid village.
occupied territories, border police army command often dispatched raids.
mukassed hospital, 25-year-old walid mohammed najadereh died late friday head wounds sustained raid, hospital officials said.
death brought death toll raid five.
deaths najadereh shaheen raised 442 number palestinians killed since december 1987 start uprising.
eighteen israelis also died.
west bank town ramallah, 32-year-old sabah kanaan hospitalized multiple fractures held members so-called palestinian strike force, army officials arab reporters said.
militants broke mrs. kanaan's home west bank city nablus tuesday night beat clubs sticks believed collaborated israel, said arab reporter, quoting woman's neighbors.
``she shouting `i'll stop, i'll stop!'''
reporter quoted neighbors saying.
israel radio said mrs. kanaan held three days.
since start uprising, dozens palestinians, including several women, killed fellow palestinians accused collaboration.
jesse jackson saturday told delegates african american summit '89 black election victories mean little economic opportunity doesn't follow.
``we successful we've legislated regulated out,'' jackson said second day three-day conference billed meeting set political social agenda 1990s.
touching numerous topics, jackson stressed need awareness among americans blacks' african heritage, theme sounded often year leader movement supplant term ``black'' ``african american.''
``we descended slaves, slavery, rather africans enslaved.
...
african roots american civilization must taught american schools,'' civil rights leader said.
candidate democratic presidential nomination 1984 1988, jackson complained lack unity key reason richard daley chicago mayoral race earlier year black candidate tim evans.
evans lost ``we broke three rules: house divided cannot win, unto others would unto love one another loved you,'' jackson said.
jackson also ridiculed judicial decisions affirmative action, particularly recent supreme court decision striking richmond, va., program setting aside 30 percent contracting jobs minorities.
``it's 70 percent whites already getting,'' said jackson.
``it's 30 percent want.''
jackson's stirring 45-minute speech drew largest crowd far conference, filling first time 1,000 seats set corner huge new orleans convention center.
meeting drew half number organizers predicted 1,700 fewer attended similar rally organized then-mayor richard hatcher gary, ind., 1972.
hatcher chairman weekend's gathering.
``i'm disappointed turnout,'' said maryland delegate curt anderson.
``but think what's important good people come out.''
fire explosion moscow watch factory killed two people, injured two others touched rumors radioactive cloud released soviet capital, official media said saturday.
however, tass news agency said worries based ``incredible unfounded'' rumors.
tass said moscow city council besieged telephone calls friday night muscovites worried neighborhood might contaminated poisonous gas released explosion earlier day.
state-run radio moscow said muscovites concerned radiation might leaked air.
tass, dismissing worries, said authorities trying determine called child-care centers tell keep children indoors close windows.
fire explosion occurred plant workers installing new wiring unventilated area accidentally ignited gas leak, tass said.
blast killed woman worker, electrician burned later died.
two women hospitalized injuries.
``troubled muscovites inquiring kind explosion happened friday morning one enterprises cheremyshkinsky region dangerous people living neighboring areas,'' tass said.
defense ministry newspaper said saturday irritating chemical agent used pro-independence demonstrators soviet georgia, quoted official saying substance cause suffocation poisoning.
however, newspaper acknowledged report local communist party daily, zarya vostoka, 61 people suffering poisoning symptoms hospitalized georgia ``grave condition.''
georgian activists claim several 19 people killed soldiers broke april 9 demonstration victims poison gas.
also say military authorities refused identify substance tell doctors treat patients suffering exposure it.
defense ministry paper red star identified substance ``cheremukha.''
soviet officials previously said ``tear gas'' used georgia given details.
``we used `cheremukha,' alone,'' red star quoted representative soviet interior ministry, maj.-gen. yu.
yefimov, saying.
``it substance basically consisting chloroacetophenone.... `cheremukha' irritant, cause suffocation poisoning.''
western military attache moscow said substance's base type incapacitating agent stronger tear gas akin commonly known west ``cs.''
yefimov told newspaper 27 cartridges substance used soldiers, ``and square front government house people killed, two places'' capital city's main thoroughfare, rustaveli prospekt.
said internal security troops attached interior ministry used chemical order, ``as say, passions `had burst banks.'''
despite yefimov's contention chemical cannot cause poisoning suffocation, weekly moscow news reported issue last week substance used protesters could factor fatalities.
``the use gas great concentrations lead instantaneous loss consciousness,'' moscow news said.
``a helpless person falls feet running crowd.''
yefimov said use chemical authorized july 28 decree supreme soviet presidium, says ``special means'' may used ``suppressing mass unrest, group violations public order anti-social activities.''
claimed april 9 rally front georgian government headquarters fell category ``seizure political power, overthrow present regime separation georgia u.s.s.r. publicly discussed.''
georgia's leadership assumed responsibility clash communist party leader premier resigned.
protests began early april reaction demands small black sea area abkhazia separated georgia.
evolved massive protests groups depending georgian independence soviet union.
hundreds thousands soccer fans stood silently saturday streets stadiums across britain commemorate 95 people killed game one week earlier.
brechin, scotland, plymouth southwest coast england, fans football league stadiums observed minute silence seven days minute disaster halted season.
league estimated half million fans took part.
95 people died liverpool-nottingham forest cup semifinal match hillsborough stadium sheffield crush overcrowded standing-room-only section.
reports press officials blamed deaths drunkeness, hooliganism, poor crowd control, stadium design itself.
however, government inquiries still way.
liverpool, nottingham, sheffield, residents took grief streets.
pedestrians halted, traffic lights stayed red, traffic stopped one minute.
areas, trains halted shops closed briefly.
nottingham's city center, air raid sirens sounded first time since day 1945, nazi germany surrendered allies.
hillsborough stadium, 1,000 people gathered outside gates fans surged grounds week ago created lethal crush.
inside, 300 relatives friends victims paid private respects, game played.
bells liverpool's metropolitan cathedral rang six minutes _ amount time liverpool-nottingham game going tragedy began.
anfield stadium, home turf liverpool team, game played either.
almost half field carpeted flowers, standing-room terraces festooned team scarves tributes dead.
one-mile chain thousands red blue scarves joined stadiums rival teams liverpool everton.
final scarf tied barry devenside, father 18-year-old victim christopher.
afterward, team director sydney moss led liverpool players onto field anfield stadium.
roman catholic archbishop derek worlock announced salvation army brass band would play liverpool anthem ``you'll never walk alone.''
minute's silence broken sobbing child.
head nation's biggest union said saturday call strike next month protest government austerity measures earlier year prompted worst rioting venezuelan history.
one-day strike, would first major work stoppage 31 years democratic government, ``will definitely go'' may, said juan jose delpino, president venezuelan workers confederation.
union plans hold two-day congress next week discuss strategy fighting belt-tightening program, resulted sharp increases bus fares, gasoline goods services.
austerity plan, result agreement international monetary fund venezuela could ease $33 billion foreign debt, spurred violent protests february.
300 people killed 2,000 injured caracas alone.
labor group represents 3 million venezuela's 5.8 million workers.
president carlos andres perez called threatened strike ``suicide, nobody would join it.''
``the strike massive obedience call response claim,'' delpino said.
venezuela, oil-producing nation whose economy collapsed petroleum prices plunged, experienced little labor unrest february's riots.
``venezuelan workers living worst crisis since (labor group) created,'' delpino told associated press.
``workers felt severe impact economic policy.''
austerity program eliminated subisides 25 basic food products implemented indexing system tied wage increases inflation rates.
despite friction union government, perez open monday's labor congress.
lebanese newspaper said saturday israel expelled 60 families farms southern lebanon refused sell army land.
israeli army official jerusalem called reports ``not true, totally unfounded.''
southern lebanon, spokesman u.n. peacekeeping force said reports villagers expelled.
lebanese police could immediately confirm report.
daily an-nahar said 500-strong israeli force backed 30 armored personnel carriers stormed seven farms around town shibaa friday rounded 300 people.
shibaa lies within israel's self-declared security zone, six-to-10-mile-deep strip patrolled israeli troops israeli-backed militiamen.
``the commander told farmers either sell 10-square-mile land israel give up,'' an-nahar said.
quoted unidentified residents saying israelis opened fire force farmers out, casualties reported.
farmers loaded belongings 300 mules left shibaa, along 30,000 goats 500 cows, an-nahar said.
timor goksel, spokesman u.n. interim force lebanon said: ``we received petition village signed 142 people.
said informed (by israel) land would confiscated military purposes.''
``some villagers said offered compensation, don't want accept it,'' goksel said.
said u.n. force began investigating reports lebanese government filed complaint united nations.
israel expelled 70 lebanese civilians shibaa several villages security zone earlier year refusing cooperate area's israeli-sponsored local administration.
israel carved security zone withdrew bulk occupation army southern lebanon june 1985.
strip, extends mediterranean coast west foothills mount hermon east, serves buffer cross-border guerrilla attacks northern israeli settlements.
janos kadar, removed may head hungary's communist party 32 years power, unable carry official functions poor health, government minister said saturday.
kadar, 76, replaced karoly grosz party leader special conference given honorary post party president.
kadar attended second half meeting communist party central committee last month absent recent party meetings.
minister state rezso nyers told meeting reform communists saturday szolnok kadar's attendance central committee meeting may ``his last appearance,'' official mti news agency reported.
kadar ousted party chief reform communists accused stifling progress.
claimed halted hungary's economic political reforms 1970s crticized role backing soviet-led invasion czechoslovakia 1968 crushed nation's ``prague spring'' reforms.
mti reported nyers said three decades kadar's rule reviewed kadar probably would become personally involved review health.
another development, fourth man invited rejoin communist party expelled year ago remain outside party, according broadcast hungary radio.
reported mihaly bihari, political scientist reform communist, said ``incompatible differences'' central committee four expelled last april.
three others, economist laszlo lengyel, historian zoltan biro parliamentary deputy zoltan kiraly, announced earlier last week would rejoin party.
central control committee, party's top disciplinary body, reversed expulsion order meeting monday.
bihari quoted hungary radio saying party paralyzed irreconcilable differences within ranks.
discussion recent weeks possible split party's reform orthodox wings.
india's 125,000 dockworkers called 6-day-old strike saturday reaching agreement government higher wages, news reports said.
strike paralyzed operations country's 10 major ports.
sailors indian navy deployed unload essential goods.
united news india news agency quoted transport minister rajesh pilot saying five striking trade unions stevedores, dockworkers, reached wage settlement government.
said workers would report duty monday.
workers demanding 25 percent hike wages government offered 15 percent increase.
indian dockhand earns $90 $180 per month.
pilot specify increase agreed negotiations said five-year settlement would satisfy workers' demands end contract.
missouri abortion-regulation dispute supreme court hear arguments wednesday generated ``friend-of-the-court'' briefs ever submitted one case.
justices asked use missouri case overturn substantially limit 1973 decision legalizing abortion.
landmark roe vs. wade decision, based woman's constitutional right privacy, said woman's decision abortion first three months pregnancy must left doctor.
court said states may interfere abortion decision second trimester protect woman's health, may take steps protect fetal life third trimester fetus survive outside womb.
state authority regulate abortions first trimester made absolute, however.
federal appeals court, relying roe vs. wade, struck unconstitutional five key provisions missouri law scrutiny: _a ban use public hospitals facilities performing abortions necessary save woman's life.
_a ban prohibiting public employee performing assisting abortion.
_a ban using taxpayer money ``encouraging counseling'' women abortions.
_a requirement doctors determine whether fetus reasonably believed older 19 weeks viable, capable surving outside womb, determining lung maturity testing.
_a declaration ``life human begins conception.''
excerpts arguments raised friend-of-the-court briefs submitted justices.
all, court received 45 briefs supporting missouri law 33 briefs opposing it.
_from bush administration: ``roe vs. wade, court well aware, intensely controversial day decided.
controversy simply reflection deep divisions american society underlying question abortion.
rather, controversy has, substantial measure, product decision itself.
``roe rests assumptions firmly grounded constitution; adopts unworkable framework tying permissible state regulation abortion particular periods pregnancy; allowed courts usurp function legislative bodies weighing competing social, ethical scientific factors reaching judgment much state regulation appropriate sensitive area.''
_from international right life federation: ``in nations world, abortion policy subject constitutional intervention high court, remaining determined wide variety legislative schemes ...
democratic compromises reached developed western nations significantly protective fetal life roe vs.
wade.''
_from american collegians life catholic league religious civil rights: ``under ... roe, states important legitimate interest protecting fetal life conception birth, interest becomes compelling viability.
``if states' interest protection fetal life becomes compelling viability, necessarily follows states possess ability require point viability determined.
compelling nature state's interest unborn human life ... anything illusory, roe progeny read permit states desiring protect fetal life require physician make determination, consistent sound medical practice, viability.''
_from national right life committee: ``abortion jurisprudence needs resolution 16 years turmoil.
court attempted resolve matter 1973.
time proven effort failure.
court confronted opportunity restore proper interpretation constitution, returning volatile matter social policy proper fora _ state legislatures.''
_from feminists life: ``there ample evidence medical studies public health statistics cited herein unfettered right abortion demand foisted upon society court abortion advocates public health disaster proportion beginning uncover.''
_from focus family family research council america: ``changes understanding medical science always outpace court's ability respond.
court's precedents rooted science constitution, roe's trimester framework, science pitted precedent, prestige honorable institution suffers.
``this court best protect interests citizens abandoning trimester approach outmoded, unscientific constitutionally unworkable, recognizing states legitimate interests, existing throughout pregnancy, protecting life mother unborn child.''
_from u.s. catholic conference: ``if court seriously seeks support abortion decisions historical line privacy cases, must reflect accurately one person's `liberty' `license' control even one's body another's interest could suffer common good diminished.''
_from southern baptist convention, national association evangelists, lutheran church-missouri synod christian life commission: ``it argued state laws prohibiting abortion unconstitutionally impose religious beliefs views one religion upon persons adhering views, thereby constituting `establishment' religion prohibited first amendment.
``we advocate imposition religious views law order impose others religious beliefs.
rather, religious beliefs ... deeply seated moral ethical system forms basis much civil criminal law nation ...
fact state's law coincides deeply held religious belief render law unconstitutional first amendment.''
_from american medical association medical groups: ``this court observed viability usually placed seven months (28 weeks) may occur earlier, even 24 weeks.
since improvements health care resulted greater survival infants born gestational age 24-28 weeks ...
earliest point fetus survive 23-24 weeks.''
``thus, substantial strides occurred saving infants born 24 28 weeks, earliest point infant survive changed little.
``what court found 1973 even true today: medical risks woman childbirth greater risks abortion.''
_from 167 scientists physicians, including 11 nobel laureates: ``there scientific consensus human life begins conception, given stage fetal development birth.
question `when human life begins' cannot answered reference scientific principles like predict planetary movement.
answer question depend individual's social, religious, philosophical, ethical moral beliefs values.
``assertions viability moved significantly earlier fetal development flatly contrary scientific evidence.
although advances technology improved chances survival premature birth within range 24 28 weeks, outer limit viability 24 weeks significantly changed.
``roe vs. wade rendered obsolete subsequent advancements science.''
_from american psychological association: ``five major reviews psychological psychiatric literature published 1975 1989 confirm overwhelming majority women undergo abortion, long-term negative emotional effects.
``when women experience regret, depression guilt, feelings mild diminish rapidly without adversely affecting general functioning.
severe emotional responses rare, even young women.
contrary, great majority women abortion express feelings relief.''
_from national association public hospitals: ``through restrictions use public facilities purpose performing assisting abortion use public funds purpose encouraging counseling abortion ... missouri intruded deeply physician-patient relationship.
``missouri's restriction ... effect prohibiting constitutionally protected conduct, therefore unconstitutional.''
_from women (about 3,000) abortions, compendium filed national organization women's legal defense education fund national abortion rights action league: ``women's privacy liberty interests ... would substantially infringed upon provisions missouri statute issue.
option abortion ... fundamental women's lives, liberty pursuit happiness.''
_from 281 american historians: ``at time federal constitution adopted, abortion known illegal.
abortion uncommon colonial america.
``a presumed interest protecting fetal life justify denying women historic liberty choose abortion.''
solidarity activists scouting offices, hooking telephones signing volunteer poll watchers flurry activity regaining legal status independent labor movement.
near center warsaw, former history institute transformed solidarity citizens committee's national election headquarters.
another location, small union press office opened.
third spot, opposition editors planning put newspaper.
solidarity volunteers _ university students, mothers leave jobs, longtime activists others _ struggling typical polish shortages office supplies, furniture phone lines.
longer need look shoulders.
government crushed solidarity, first independent union east bloc, martial law crackdown 1981 later banned it.
years illegal activity, solidarity recaptured legal status government-controlled court lifted ban monday.
legalization stemmed talks opposition government concluded agreement april 5.
government also agreed free elections new chamber parliament electoral reforms exchange political economic cooperation solidarity.
suppressed, solidarity claimed 10 million members.
however, speaking end three-day visit italy, solidarity leader lech walesa predicted saturday rome labor movement dwindle gives rise splinter groups reforms poland.
``from solidarity, economic political organizations born,'' said walesa.
``solidarity moment huge, become smaller growth organizations.
logical course events.''
first major office open warsaw since legalization solidarity citizens committee headquarters empty former history institute edge picturesque saxon garden park.
organization, technically separate solidarity, racing early deadlines finding candidates.
collecting nominating signatures, running campaigns, training election observers parliamentary voting scheduled june 4 june 18.
friday, jacek kuron, veteran activist slated run existing upper chamber parliament, scrambled building holding quick chats several prominent activists bustling center.
``it's full problems,'' replied asked practical side ushering legal activity.
``we don't telephones, don't space, don't anything _ will.''
jan litynski, spokesman warsaw regional chapter solidarity, said: ``the mood getting hotter hotter elections.''
anatol lawina, solidarity representative state election commission, said hopes line 100,000 people nationwide help guard cheating 22,000 polling sites.
elsewhere country, local election offices news bureaus also opened.
election newspaper, newspaper expects circulate 500,000 copies, found offices empty building central warsaw, said ernest skalski, one editors.
paper become first opposition mass-circulation daily east bloc first edition, scheduled may.
hail damaging winds hit parts minnesota iowa saturday along first thunderstorms spring, widely scattered showers dampened parts florida northwestern states.
high winds north-central iowa damaged buildings downed power lines swea city bancroft uprooted trees elsewhere.
hail hit near bancroft southwestern minnesota high winds blew barn north windom.
cold front northeast, meanwhile, left four inches snow caribou, maine, early afternoon 2 inches mount washington, n.h. showers thunderstorms southeast east central coast florida.
widely scattered rainshowers northwestern states.
dry weather prevailed across rest nation, sunny skies southern central high plains south.
temperatures generally 80s early saturday afternoon southeastern states southern central high plains readings 90s reported eastern parts colorado, new mexico nebraska.
cool weather prevailed great lakes region northeast readings mostly 40s 50s early saturday afternoon.
temperatures 30s across northern new england much eastern new york state.
temperatures around nation 3 p.m. edt ranged 26 degrees limestone, maine, 96 degrees dodge city, kan., lubbock wink, texas.
low nation 22 degrees gunnison, colo.
forecast sunday called showers thunderstorms south central united states scattered showers thunderstorms upper ohio valley, southern appalachians middle upper mississippi valley lower great lakes; rain michigan indiana western ohio western north carolina western virginia; snow showers northern central maine; scattered rainshowers northern central pacific coast montana rain likely across oregon, northern california southwestern idaho.
sunny skies expected across rest nation.
temperatures expected remain 60 great lakes region new jersey new england highs 40s new england eastern new york state, 50s northern central pacific coast western montana; 80 florida georgia lower middle mississippi valley southern central high plains, highs 90s central western texas southeastern nebraska.
readings expected 80s 90s southwestern deserts.
president bush signed secret intelligence directive provide $10 million aid opponents panama's gen. manuel noriega country's upcoming elections, published report says.
bush signed directive, called ``finding,'' february, according may 1 issue us news &amp; world report.
magazine quotes unnamed sources saying bush personally lobbied plan congressional intelligence committees approval cia provide $10 million aid _ including printing, advertising, transportation communications _ noriega's opponents.
reagan set similar program motion one year ago, magazine said.
asked report saturday, white house spokeswoman alixe glen said, ``i can't comment intelligence matters.''
added u.s. official position remains opposed noriega government back candidates there.
``our position remains same.
want return democracy panamanian people.''
added, however, ``it's panamanian people vote.''
panamanians go polls may 7 presidential election noriega's candidate carlos duque.
noriega, accused federal drug trafficking case miami, central american country's de facto ruler since february 1988, orchestrated ouster president eric arturo delvalle.
delvalle tried fire noriega military leader.
washington still recognizes delvalle president panama, president reagan 1987 cut military economic aid panama.
bush month extended sanctions include sharp restrictions u.s. companies business panama, hold assets panamanian government united states prohibition tax payments u.s. organizations panama.
administration officials raised possibility sanctions could eased may 7 elections deemed fair.
officials expressed pessimism case.
prime minister anibal cavaco silva saturday blamed extreme leftists prompting demands police officers form union, news reports said.
demands provoked violent clashes within police force.
six policemen arrested clashes friday riot police fellow officers demanding union rights.
released saturday pending trial.
100 uniformed officers greeted release victory signs calls protest.
riot police used water cannons, dogs batons friday protesting officers outside internal affairs ministry.
riot escalated, civilians joined demonstrators hurling stones riot squad.
seventeen people reported injured.
``extremist forces, communist forces socialists behind movements public security police,'' silva quoted national lusa news agency saying.
cavaco silva's center-right social democratic government granted union rights uniformed police units, saying militarized status makes trade unions unconstitutional.
portugal's two major trade union federations, communist-inspired general confederation portuguese workers socialist-led general workers union, called demonstration monday protest actions riot police.
general workers union general secretary jose torres couto, also socialist deputy national assembly, said would ask parliamentary inquiry friday's riot demanded resignation internal affairs minister jose antonio da silveira godinho.
president daniel ortega signed law saturday abolishes prior censorship indefinite closures newspapers radio stations.
new code authorize private television stations, sought oppositon groups, ``guarantees equal access social political groups'' government-run television.
law passed friday national assembly.
ortega signed leaving two-week tour 11 western european nations seek aid cash-strapped sandinista government.
ortega claimed new law one progressive latin america provide fines permanent shutdowns news outlets.
provide temporary suspensions.
president also said journalists work greater security nicaragua central american nations, mentioned el salvador, said face ``systematic terrorism.''
``in countries region, journalists, union leaders opposition politicians assassinated,'' told reporters signing law.
major provisions new law include: _penalties disseminating information deemed contrary interests state, ``alterating'' government news releases, communiques statements, ``transmission, diffusion, publication projection injurious, defamatory false information.''
_the interior ministry order closures four days order offending broadcasters publishers issue retractions, clarifications corrections.
broadcasters publishers right hearing sanctions applied.
_no prior censorship.
previous law, government could require news media submit copies articles censor publication broadcast.
interior ministry could order inderfinite suspension news media without hearing.
main opposition newspaper la prensa radion station nicaraguan roman catholic church freequently shut down, sometimes months time, could reopen government approval.
ortega agreed meeting february presidents five central american countries reform nicaragua's press laws also election code govern general elections next february.
saturday ortega said four central american nations failed live part agreement said provided producing plan dismantle u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels known contras.
accused governments honduras, el salvador, guatemala costa rica ``trying toy nicaragua.''
ortega said united states trying block propects peace region.
bush administration friday extended 4-year-old economic embargo nicaragua, saying leftist government poses ``an unusual extraordinary threat'' u.s. security.
tuesday, president bush signed measure provide $49.8 million humanitarian aid contras, based honduras, nicaraguan elections february.
ortega said u.s. government ``throwing gasoline fires'' central american conflicts.
four pumps used empty remaining oil-tainted water disabled, leaking barge saturday workers laid absorbent pads clean impurities spilled grand river.
officials said 10,000 gallons non-hazardous waste material _ water small percentages oil alcohol _ spilled river early friday loading dock river 35 miles southwest baton rouge.
earlier estimates put amount spill 100,000 gallons more.
``as 10 a.m., pumping barge vacuum trucks,'' said douglas wootten, marine science technician coast guard.
``they one behind another.
soon one filled, another pulls up.''
spill occurred barge carrying 900,000 gallons waste water exxon plant houston buckled middle workers unloaded waste tanker trucks.
initial fears fragile environment _ site spill near large marshland area _ fish died.
authorities said spill quickly contained booms environmental damage would minimal.
``they booms place small amount product went river.
retrieved,'' wootten said.
absorbent pads put soak impurities river, officials said.
gordon vice, employee gsx land treatment, paid dispose waste water, required merchant marine certification performing work time accident, said coast guard chief warrant officer larry doss.
gsx assuming responsibility cleanup, officials said.
gsx spokesman bobby mayweather said saturday afternoon vice site unavailable comment.
woman answering telephone vice's home white castle also said unavailable.
exxon, harshly criticized past month 10 million-gallon spill oil tanker hit reef alaska, involvement friday's spill except one plants source waste water, officials said.
``exxon getting bad rap this,'' wootten said.
``they nothing spill.
hired company haul product off.
fact, exxon commended _ liability still sent clean-up crew.''
wootten said amount so-called ``slop water'' leaking barge grand river small.
``drip, drip, drip, that's is,'' said.
paul dubois, spokesman palmer co., owner barge, said water-alcohol mixture used wash tanks ships.
it's dirty oil residue, becomes waste water, said.
exxon estimated water contained 3 percent oil 7 percent alcohol.
alcohol began evaporating spill.
u.s. navy sailor puckered way classical popular tunes become grand champion 16th annual national whistlers convention saturday.
sean lomak, 28, stationed pearl harbor, get commanding officer's permission fly hawaii event, whistled piece opera ``carmen'' popular tune ``the entertainer.''
lomak never entered national contest awards international whistle-off carson city, nev., classical category, said allen dehart, founder director saturday's event.
lomak appear may 5 ``tonight show'' hosted johnny carson.
second place went yugo conti el cerrito, calif., whistled classical oboe concerto ``sailing spain.''
amy rose, 15, louisburg, children's national championship earlier, took teen-age division.
classical piece ``blue danube.''
terri long, 12, louisburg children's category.
greg smith raleigh selected best supporting male whistler renditions ``putting top hat'' selection ``nutcracker.''
gwenneth wagg philadelphia best support female whistler award.
best supporting awards go contestants second place among whistlers, dehart said.
whistlers ranged age 9-year-old jeff tillett louisburg 80-year-old glenn vivarette raleigh, dehart said.
lillian williams award, presented outstanding entertainer contestant, went robert larson, 65, minneapolis.
larson, judge year's contest, ineligible contestant international champion, dehart said.
defense forces said saturday panama's new visa requirement designed keep u.s. journalists country may 7 presidential election.
defense forces spokesman maj. edgardo lopez grimaldo issued statement claiming u.s. news media plan denounce elections fraudulent.
said decision require visas u.s. citizens visit panama prevent ``disinformation'' campaign hide election fraud.
``the visa requirement aimed strategy crying fraud four winds representatives u.s. press,'' statement said.
added u.s. media ``voluntarily involuntarily, innocently maliciously, playing game state department u.s. embassy panama.''
state department spokesman richard boucher said washington thursday visa requirement ``attempt isolate electoral process'' public scrutiny.
panamanian opposition leaders invited hundreds foreign observers monitor may voting.
say fear defense forces, controlled gen. manuel antonio noriega, fix vote favor carlos duque, officially sanctioned candidate.
opposition alliance seeking noriega's ouster supporting guillermo endara.
noriega indicted february 1988 two federal grand juries florida accused defense forces commander drug trafficking.
united states imposed economic sanctions panama unsuccessful effort force noriega resign leave panama.
new visa requirement ended 43 years easy entry panama u.s. citizens.
friday needed tourist card.
must visa issued panamanian consulate recognizes acting president manuel solis palma.
consulates recognize solis palma.
instead recognize eric arturo delvalle, ousted noriega-dominated national assembly tried force noriega step u.s. drug indictments issued.
united states still recognizes delvalle president.
washington, may 1 issue us news &amp; world report said president bush signed february secret intelligence directive provide $10 million election aid noriega's oppoents.
magazine attributed report unidentified sources quoted saying bush personally lobbied plan congressional intelligence committees approval cia provide money printing, advertising, transportation communications general's opponents.
white house spokeswoman alixe glen said saturday could ``comment intelligence matters.''
said u.s. position remains opposed noriega government back candidates panamanian election.
``our position remains same.
want return democracy panamanian people,'' said.
``it's panamanian people vote.''
earlier month bush extended sanctions include restrictions u.s. companies business panama, holds assets panamanian government united states prohibits tax payments u.s. organizations panama.
astroturf, synthetic sod makes possible play football, baseball sports grass doesn't grow, 25th birthday party private school began.
astroturf's silver anniversary observed friday moses brown school, quaker school prototype installed 25 years ago part effort help city kids become physically fit.
``we idea would develop something big,'' recalled school's athletic director football coach, jerry a. zeoli, oversaw installation among 20 30 people friday's celebration.
astroturf installed 500 locations 32 countries, said astroturf industries inc. president ed m. milner.
wound moses brown ford foundation study showing urban children less fit suburban counterparts.
1964, foundation gave school grant test artificial grass new field house.
developing turf, monsanto co. studied traction, shock absorbance, weather resistance, balls rolled bounced, host factors, milner said statement.
moses brown used nylon field baseball, tennis, soccer lacrosse, zeoli said.
also saw service graduation ceremonies dances.
``you clean easily, need vacuum cleaner,'' zeoli said.
zeoli figured astroturf might potential 1965 officials houston astrodome journeyed north look nylon carpet couldn't get real grass grow new domed stadium.
texans decided improved version, synthetic turf subsequently named astrodome.
artificial turf, costs less maintain natural variety, used today professional football stadiums.
astroturf made nylon polymer, dyed green spun ribbon, crimped give texture knitted tough backing.
moses brown's prototype far different today's astroturf, zeoli said.
backing one-sixteenth inch thick, compared much inch today.
``i could run plays ideal, couldn't scrimmage,'' zeoli recalled.
``hitting surface could probably injure someone.''
professional athletes blamed injuries astroturf, saying synthetic surface give way natural turf does.
however, astroturf industries' magazine, turf talk, quotes several doctors saying product increase risk football injuries.
astroturf industries subsidiary monsanto february 1988, sold west german company balsam sportstattenbau steinhagen.
company remains based dalton, ga. anniversary gift, company resurfaced weight room moses brown astroturf.
old astroturf still going strong.
three-fourths prototype still covers field house floor.
people responded surprising frankness questions sexual habits drug use pilot study determine prevalence aids, suggesting similar study could succeed nationwide, u.s. health officials say.
308 eligible residents approached january february homes allegheny county, 263 _ 85 percent _ agreed fill form containing questions sexual habits drug use give blood sample study, exchange $50.
``i'd call surprising success,'' said peter hurley, project officer atlanta-based centers disease control, commissioned survey.
results discussed friday meeting allegheny county health department's community advisory committee, approved pilot study last fall.
still unanswered, researchers said, whether people participating survey actually telling truth intimate habits, whether national survey could done close original estimated cost $25 million.
besides allegheny county study, pilot survey slated start summer dallas.
one washington, d.c., scrapped august community leaders complained appeared single blacks.
pilot studies running 20 percent budget, largely effort required quell community concern them, hurley said.
allegheny county, original pool 450 homes randomly chosen survey, interviewers found 308 person home aged 18 54, survey's target ages.
all, 263 308 people agreed fill form give blood.
residents said agreed take part wanted help research acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
15 said main reason get $50 paid everyone answered 22 questions gave blood sample.
aids tests run blood samples, county health officials said release results.
even survey participants given results blood tests, worried exposed aids advised contact doctor health clinic.
three protestant militiamen northern ireland american businessman arrested delivery missile-launcher parts south african diplomat, government official said saturday.
french official said three militiamen belong ulster defense association, largest paramilitary organization northern ireland.
arrests made friday paris hotel four men delivering spare parts british-made blowpipe shoulder-carried missile launcher daniel storm, south african diplomat, official said, speaking condition anonymity.
said storm, covered diplomatic immunity, released four held questioning offices dst, france's counterespionage agency.
official announcement arrests.
news reports identified three militiamen noel little, 40; samuel quinn, 41; james king, 50.
news agency agence france-presse identified american 40-year-old douglas bernhart.
agency said without providing details bernhart kept office geneva.
however, name listed geneva phone book local register companies.
french law permits police hold suspects questioning four days charged offense.
duty officer interior ministry, responsible counterespionage agency, said could comment report.
johannesburg, foreign affairs department confirmed saturday storm staff south african embassy paris said would investigation case.
paris newspaper le monde said appeared south africans hoped copy delivered parts produce similar anti-aircraft missile own, possibly export.
said spare parts apparently stolen gave details.
none reports carried details payments parts.
belfast, spokesman royal ulster constablulary, speaking condition anonymity, said dummy blowpipe missile stolen weekend april 8-9 territorial army, national guard, base newtonards, county down.
said security forces insist working parts.
known evidence link discovery arrests france.
blowpipe, sometimes compared u.s.-made stinger missile launcher, weighs 45 pounds fires 76mm guided surface-to-air missiles.
president jose azcona hoyo pleaded saturday countrymen return money honduras, saying capital flight crippling economy.
azcona said $1 billion left country last nine years, deposited u.s. banks.
blamed capital flight regional conflicts plague central america.
``the uncertain panorama central america badly damaged honduras, one nations region lives democracy relative tranquility,'' azcona said.
restrictions taking capital honduras.
honduras involved civil war, neighbors el salvador, guatemala nicaragua are, honduras become refugees guerrillas.
azcona said ``situation confronting region provokes fear insecurity local foreign investors.''
``because $1 billion deposited foreign bank accounts, specifically united states, many hondurans last years,'' said.
said majority honduran businessmen bank accounts united states $200,000 $300,000.
spoke interview radio america, one main networks honduras.
``if compatriots would return 25 percent capital, would $250 million, would partially solve problems confront honduras,'' president said.
honduras ranked many international organizations one poorest nations hemisphere.
suffers 30 percent unemployment, budget deficit $300 million inflation rate 30 percent.
twins separated shortly birth bridged 30 years 2,000 miles saturday culmination woman's decade-long search sister never knew.
susan muchlenbruch's efforts paid last week finally located twin, mary ann mcnew, living seattle suburb.
sisters met first time nearly 35 years saturday o'hare international airport.
``you don't know happy are,'' ms. muchlenbruch said, crying hugging sister.
``we're going catch we've lost, years we've missed together,'' said tearful ms. mcnew.
``i feeling might family there, didn't know where.''
rev.
earl davis, nearby wilmette church christ, said congregation would pay hotel accommodations sisters weekend wouldn't stay ms. muchlenbruch's trailer home.
``this probably biggest thing ever happened (ms. muchlenbruch's) life,'' davis said.
ms. mcnew's adoptive mother, gladys mcnew, said daughter ``kind wreck whole week'' looking forward three-day reunion sister's home chicago suburb northfield.
``she hasn't able eat, sleep hardly work,'' mrs. mcnew said telephone interview saturday bellevue, wash.
twins born cook county hospital almost 35 years ago.
shortly afterward, mother institutionalized emotional problems, said debbie felt, supervisor missing persons service salvation army, helped ms. muchlenbruch search decade futile checking own.
``their father tried raise first three months, couldn't handle put adoption,'' ms.
felt said.
gladys mcnew said husband wanted adopt twins, chicago adoption agency's policy divide twins.
``at time, want put twins together ... gave us one,'' said.
``i thought cruel thing do.''
years, mrs. mcnew kept secret daughter.
``through years didn't say anything didn't want frustrated looking someone couldn't find,'' said.
mary turned 6, family moved seattle.
``this one fluke case,'' said ms.
felt.
``we didn't leads except one, ended sending one letter.''
salvation army sent letter ms. mcnew, divorced 14-year-old daughter.
``she waited two minutes curiosity got best called sister,'' ms.
felt said.
``every time talk they're crying they're happy,'' said.
``they're excited can't think straight anymore.''
comic actress lucille ball continued smooth recovery open-heart surgery saturday, doctors considering moving another section intensive care unit, hospital spokesman said.
``she's recovering well person something like this,'' said spokesman ron wise cedars-sinai medical center.
actress, remained serious condition, would stay intensive care unit well enough might moved area patients requiring less critical care, said.
77-year-old entertainer underwent emergency surgery tuesday receive transplanted piece heart artery.
miss ball, remained popular decades reruns ``i love lucy show,'' showered cards, letters flowers well-wishers recovery.
oklahomans horseback wagons saturday re-enacted mad rush occurred century ago 2 million acres indian territory opened white settlement.
thousands watched history buff paul ward fired colt pistol 150 yelling participants costume rushed forward.
cowboy hats gear flying, raced half-mile, winners awarded stakes like ancestors might used claim land 1889.
yards race, woman thrown horse.
taken away ambulance, emergency officials said didn't believe injuries serious.
re-enactment, parade issuing commemorative postcard among hundreds activities marking 100th anniversary land run, first step process led creation state oklahoma 1907.
noon april 22, 1889, 40,000 settlers raced borders 2 million-acre unassigned lands _ present-day central oklahoma, indian territory _ claim 160-acre tracts town lots.
land opened white settlement president benjamin harrison.
many oklahomans trace roots race land, centennial focus celebrations statewide.
indian groups participating; others protested festivities.
``we're ghetto people stole land enjoying prosperity,'' said frances wise, member tribal voices coalition.
said asking indians take part like ``asking us dance graves people.''
many events took place guthrie, old territorial capital, traffic interstate 35 town backed 10 miles saturday afternoon.
steps front guthrie's carnegie library, u.s.
postal service issued commemorative postcard gov.
henry bellmon, wearing cowboy hat western-style jacket, dignitaries looked on.
speeches library steps delayed start parade past scheduled noon start.
mayor james weems got 65 floats 18 marching bands rolling around 12:15 p.m., drawing cheers crowd estimated 50,000 said, ``we've waited 100 years this, let's start sucker.''
settlers flocked 1889 immigrants, former civil war soldiers, blacks farmers fleeing drought.
also opportunists, speculators profiteers.
edmond author stan hoig, retired central state university professor written 10 books oklahoma history, said land run proved unfair.
time, many called unprecedented event ``harrison's hoss race.''
some, race swift sneaky.
``sooners'' got sooner everyone else gave state nickname evaded federal troops guarding area's borders claimed choice parcels.
disputes sooner claims snarled courts years.
staked claims homesteads faced five years hard work ``prove up'' land gain permanent ownership.
many lived houses constructed sod cut thickly matted soil never felt plow.
gave claims try later land openings indian territory _ four via runs, others lottery, allotment sealed bids.
guthrie, swelled settlers staking claims, became territorial capital state capital oklahoma city took place 1910.
judge investigating allegations foreign-exchange fraud issued order barring two former finance ministers leaving country, newspapers reported saturday.
congressman carlos tablante, whose accusations brought investigation, said case involves overbilling grants dollars non-existent imports could amount $4 billion.
alleged fraud occurred administration president jaime lusinchi social democratic party, preferential dollar exchange system.
system abolished shortly feb. 2 inauguration president carlos andres perez, also social democrat, succeeded lusinchi.
preferential plan pegged exchange 14.50 bolivars per dollar imports foreign debt payments.
eliminated, left free market rate ranged around 36 bolivars per dollar last month.
judge luis la riva's order issued friday banned ex-finance ministers manuel azpurua hector hurtado leaving venezuela.
also named prohibition order former vice finance minister jorge garcia duque; egdalia bastardo, director recadi, unspecified number people judge identify.
recadi government agency, since abolished, six years charge granting preferential exchange imports.
investigations la riva congressional committee centered recadi.
azpurua finance minister first three years lusinchi's five-year administration.
replaced hurtado, previously served minister development.
goldfish reunited owner saturday week goldfish claim survived.
six-inch red fantail suffered close brush death week ago fell motorcycle rider's knapsack onto busy highway, rescued passing motorist resuscitated nearby garage.
denise warley, traveling opposite direction motorcyclist, saw newly purchased fish plastic bag water pop onto scalby road seaside town northeast coast england.
mrs. warley, 43, asked husband stop car ran back along road cars drove bag burst it, leaving goldfish high dry.
fish slithered gutter gasping last mrs. warley scooped hands, sprinted nearby garage plunged water watering can.
warleys took home share tank goldfish.
``when picked gutter looked state shock,'' good samaritan said.
``no wonder _ talk one got away, must lives cat.''
story rescue appeared local newspaper pet shop owner recognized fish sold.
stroke luck, purchaser left name address shop earlier bought puppy there.
week peers would envy, lucky red fantail safely handed owner.
governor saturday asked alaskans observe five minutes silence sunday remembrance way things exxon valdez oil spill fouled hundreds miles pristine coastline.
coast guard hundreds volunteers, meanwhile, scrubbed tar-like oil beaches.
vice admiral clyde robbins, coast guard's on-scene coordinator, said uss juneau uss fort mchenry would join effort floating hotels.
``they (exxon) asked them, subject finding price is.
suspect they'll use them,'' said robbins, adding told ships cost u.s. government $150,000 day operate.
exxon asked pay amount exceeding government's cost operating landing ships, based san diego, robbins said.
cost issue settled ``highest levels'' government, said.
juneau, due valdez monday, sleep 840 troops.
fort mchenry sleep 500.
gov.
steve cowper set period silence mark 30-day anniversary grounding exxon valdez.
fully loaded tanker struck reef spilled 10.1 million gallons crude wildlife-rich prince william sound.
cordova, fishing community 40 miles accident, organizers planned afternoon activities, including speeches, displays photographs children's mural depicting america's worst oil spill.
``we wanted world know much loved prince william sound, beautiful think is,'' said belle mickelson, coordinates commercial fisheries education programs cordova high school.
``maybe people understand we're sad.
...
seeing whales three feet away ... bears fish swimming upstream'' experiences threatened spill, said.
many fisherman expressed frustration exxon coast guard lack progress since march 24 accident.
scooping oil buckets.
makeshift fleet 48 skimmer boats returned work shortly daylight saturday.
oil taken one five barges hired exxon receive recovered oil, reprocessed company.
low clouds fog grounded observation supply planes early saturday.
cleanup concentrated sites seals haul water.
exxon spokesman joe tucker said 303,000 feet boom deployed keep 14 percent spill still sea coating beaches.
less half-mile beaches cleaned, spill touched beaches along 300 miles kenai peninsula kodiak island, latter home many brown bears world's no.
1 fishing port.
robbins said midday saturday 425-foot soviet skimmer vaidogubsky picked 10,000 gallons oil gore point, site large pools oil trapped spectacular rock outcroppings.
vessel arrived wednesday spent days testing booms refueling.
saturday morning yet scoop oil.
alaska policymakers worried state's image least sullied spectacular shoreline.
sen. ted stevens called exxon pay program inspect alsaska seafood certify purity ease consumer fears.
``there's indications fall-off demand alaska products,'' republican said.
``it's largest problem i've seen far, could overwhelming addressed.''
rep. young, r-alaska, rep. curt weldon, r-pa., toured oil-tainted shores interior secretary manuel lujan jr. said friday introduce legislation make one person _ probably coast guard commandant _ responsible spill cleanups.
prize-winning playwright novelist james kirkwood, co-wrote book record-setting broadway musical ``a chorus line,'' died cancer.
kirkwood, lived key west, fla., died friday new york, hospitalized recently, said friend, arthur beckenstein.
although kirkwood's age listed 58, recently said actually 64.
``as actor, got habit lying age,'' said.
1976, kirkwood tony award pulitzer prize ``a chorus line,'' written nicholas dante.
``a chorus line,'' also drama critics circle award, opened 1975, logged record 3,389th performance 1983 remains longest-running musical broadway history.
kirkwood also wrote plays including ``unhealthy unpleasant,'' produced broadway 1966, ``legends,'' toured country 1986 1987 mary martin carol channing.
books included ``p.s.
cat dead!''
adapted stage, ``american grotesque,'' nonfiction work conspiracy aftermath assassination president kennedy.
shortly died, kirkwood finished book experiences called ``diary mad playwright.''
kirkwood followed actor-parents, lila lee james kirkwood sr., show business 14.
appeared shows including ``wonderful town'' ``welcome darlings'' motion picture credits included ``mommie dearest'' ``the supernaturals.''
also served u.s. coast guard three years.
kirkwood also part comedy-satire team called jim kirkwood lee goodman, performed nightclubs around country also radio show wor several years.
survived half-brother half-sister.
memorial service planned.
agriculture ministers european economic community agreed saturday freeze farm prices within 12 nations keep farm budget $33 billion.
weeklong debate, 12 eec ministers agreed keep price supports generally last year's levels.
biggest cut made guarantees growers citrus fruits, 7.5 percent.
prices sugar drop 2 percent, although community's executive commission requested 5 percent cut.
tax production surplus milk reduced 25 percent, move milk producers supported.
eec farm budget 60 percent organization's total budget.
200 firefighters contained brush fire saturday forced evacuation 200 homes erupted day before.
firefighters hampered rough terrain completed 3{ miles, 70 percent, five miles fire line needed contain blaze, said dennis neill, fire information officer u.s. forest service.
evacuations expected.
``we still concerns subdivisions immediate area fire,'' neill said.
blaze flared southwest monument around noon friday.
midafternoon, could seen miles away consumed grass, scrub oak ponderosa pine private land land pike national forest 20 miles north colorado springs.
authorities ordered evacuation four subdivisions containing 200 homes, allowed people back homes friday night.
fire's cause unknown, neill said.
``this early fire us,'' said.
``it's symptom dry weather we've last several years.
don't normally expect conditions maybe june july.''
higher-than-expected humidity low winds helped firefighters saturday, neill said.
howard university officials announced saturday james e. cheek, president predominantly black institution 20 years, retire june.
cheek, 56, began howard 1969, resignation take effect june 30.
washington post quoted sources sunday's editions saying cheek expected nominated president bush become ambassador republic cameroon.
tenure, confronted number student protests similar one earlier year three-day takeover university administration building forced resignation republican national committee chairman lee atwater university's board trustees.
last week, students staged rally campus held candlelight vigil outside cheek's home, charging university hadn't complied march 9 agreement ended anti-atwater protests.
students also complained financial aid campus security problems yet resolved.
sailors aboard uss wisconsin, sister ship uss iowa 47 men killed last week gun turret explosion, opened ship saturday talk pride battleships sense loss.
``the one thing mind tragic loss many ex-shipmates,'' said capt.
jerry m. blesch, commander wisconsin.
four battleships navy, many aboard iowa served wisconsin.
``these old ships,'' said lt. matt schatzle, 25, gulfport, miss., commands three 16-inch guns wisconsin's turret no.
3.
``the crews connection old sailors served ships back world war ii.
...
jobs, face dangers.''
explosion ripped iowa's no.
2 turret wednesday gunnery exercises puerto rico.
cause blast investigation.
gun's 2,700-pound projectile fired six 110-pound bags black powder.
time explosion, 58 men turret, extends six decks 887-foot ship.
11 survived lowest deck, loading powder ship's forward magazines, navy said.
navy teams entered turret immediately blast found no.
2 gun's breech open undamaged, practice projectile gun fired still sitting there, new york times reported sunday editions.
indicated explosion occurred six bags loaded gun ready fire, times said, quoting unidentified sources seen initial reports disaster.
navy gunnery officers narrowed estimate time explosion point bags transferred powder hoist gun, newspaper said.
said flame gases released explosion, killed everyone upper part turret, also went powder hoist lowest deck.
officers said transfer powder guns complete, hoist also would sealed off.
pentagon spokesman jim turner said saturday new information investigation.
ship expected arrive home port sunday base memorial service scheduled monday president bush.
aboard wisconsin, texas sailor undaunted.
``to me, gunner's ultimate dream,'' said gunner's mate 1st class billy owens, pointing gun room filled immense breech 16-inch gun.
``there big boom, rattle shake goes off.
like hearing go off.
it's ultimate experience.
little guns go bang.
big ones boom,'' said 29-year-old corpus christi native.
turret, conditions cramped equipment old.
maintenance, said crew, daily ritual.
``one things guns pride instill,'' schatzle said.
``everything gun room mechanical; computers.
men actually things.
take apart equipment like car.
get dirty.
it's hands-on job, it's something gunners proud of.
...
it's team team effort.''
``it brought home fact dangerous occupation things go wrong go wrong future,'' blesch said.
kentucky native, compared gun duty coal mining, cave-ins injuries occur.
critics argued battleships old _ especially 16-inch guns _ effective, something blesch disputed.
``these magnificent ships.
iowa withstood turret blast today steaming port, essentially battle ready.
ship could?''
asked.
cyclone orson, winds 124 mph, swept across coast state western australia sunday caused minor damage casualties, officials reported.
state emergency service said storm weakened moved south expected pose threat.
said reports minor flooding damage roofs windows.
wayne state university officials called end saturday 10-day occupation campus building students protesting school's treatment blacks.
students conducting so-called ``study-in'' helen newberry joy student services center respond request, first made university, said wayne state spokesman vernon foss.
later night, school officials met students.
many 100 students initially occupied building april 12, 40 50 saturday night, said campus policeman refused give name.
foss said request part university called ``last, best offer'' several days negotiations students.
proposal included offer amnesty would stay effect saturday night's session concluded.
university officials, however, plans ask campus detroit police remove students, foss said.
university agreed 13 students' 17 demands, including granting department status center black studies.
administators said would ask board governors establish department september.
saturday night's meeting held address four unresolved demands: increased recruitment black students, reinstatement money cut black studies center's budget past 10 years, increased financial aid blacks black faculty.
occupied building contains offices handle financial aid, registration, student records student services.
public library officials seeking ways meet budget crunch didn't look basement, found authentic copy lincoln's emancipation proclamation hidden junk pile.
trustees ashfield's small public library meeting basement worrying whether state federal grants would come stumbled across copy, said trustee maurice isserman, professor history mount holyoke college south hadley.
``somebody said could sell old prints corner,'' said.
``i walked looked one wasn't print, document looked bottom abraham lincoln's signature.
``i took local appraiser introduced world lincolnia sales.
told us valuable document called sothebys,'' isserman said.
document one 48 copies made 1864, signed lincoln secretary state william seward, experts sotheby's auction house new york told library trustees.
document auctioned next fall expected fetch least $70,000, equal library needs finish renovations, isserman said.
``it like providential finding,'' said.
library officials believe document given library years ago man named george william curtis, friend lincoln's one founders ashfield library association.
thousands gallons water flooded control room river bend nuclear power plant, knocking pumps help cool reactor, nuclear regulatory commission spokesman said saturday.
plant shut three weeks refueling maintenance accident occurred shortly midnight wednesday, said bill benedetto, spokesman plant owner gulf state utilities.
reactor core's temperature never exceeded 95 degrees, injuries pumps working within 10 minutes accident, benedetto said.
federal investigative team arrived friday look accident, said nrc spokesman joe gilliland.
according gilliland, maintenance crew fixing 6-inch water pipe plant's auxiliary building, houses pumps control centers.
workers used seals block water section crew working on, seals failed 15,000 gallons poured out.
pipe carries water used cool various plant equipment, reactor itself, gilliland said.
water spilled radioactive.
however, flood shorted electrical equipment running pumps cool reactor powering lights several parts plant, benedetto said.
said work caused spill would performed reactor operating.
inspection team's report completed three weeks, amount time river bend remain shut down, gilliland said.
river bend 25 miles northwest baton rouge, operation since 1985.
australian scientist charged influential indian scholar faked fossil history india himalayas called one biggest paleontological frauds time.
``it's massive fabric disinformation liberally poured 25-year period without anyone blowing whistle,'' said john talent, associate professor earth sciences sydney's macquarie university.
talent accused prominent indian geologist viswa jit gupta building career ``warped, twisted, tangled'' web disinformation.
gupta, geologist panjab university chandigarh, india, quoted new york times sunday saying talent lying him.
said talent's charges ``far truth'' product ``malicious bias professional jealousy.''
talent, interview thursday associated press, said gupta invented fictitious fossils rewritten geological history northern india.
said gupta based writings specimens ``that could bought fossil shops, often picked united states, parts europe, china elsewhere.''
said gupta reported discovering ``huge number'' fossils remote areas himalayas, high mountain range accessible scientists.
contended specimens ``common laboratory rocks.''
talent's findings published thursday respected british journal nature.
talent said gupta published 400 scientific papers several major texts geology indian subcontinent.
said academics around world collaborated papers, readily accepted leading international journals.
sydney morning herald newspaper, earlier interview, said talent estimated 60 scientists ``unwittingly drawn fraud agreeing examine specimens co-author papers.''
talent said first became suspicious gupta's research 1971 research paper tiny marine fossils called graptolites, reported came site kashmir.
visiting site, talent said, discovered ``to amazement, could never find graptolites kind fossils site mashed up.''
``i became intrigued results gupta putting literature,'' said.
``i intially believed fraud would collapse weight.
``it reached point much misinformation getting difficult place work colleagues context.''
gupta told times invited talent visit laboratory chandigarh fossil sites dispute, talent declined.
talent told newspaper able fit visits schedule, calling investigation panel scientists.
200 people, including seriously ill patients said medical research animals saved lives, rallied saturday northwestern university support research.
rally students, faculty members pro-research demonstrators came rash protests death threats biomedical researchers university suburb north chicago.
university president arnold weber told demonstrators university would intimidated recent acts vandalism university buildings, including spray-painted death threats faculty members.
animal rights groups denied connection threats vandalism.
seriously ill demonstrators said research using animals hope cure, claimed foes jeopardizing medical progress.
``we need look human side it, realize would happen animal rights activists got way,'' said steve carroll, national executive director incurably ill animal research, group said 2,500 members nationwide.
carroll, 37, severely burned 50 percent body airplane accident suffers chronic osteomyelitis, painful bone infection said treated thanks tests animals.
``i person whose life saved animal research,'' said.
``there's way express grateful research done.
``painkillers allowed keep sanity developed animals,'' carroll said.
``we wouldn't coronary bypass surgery, able remove cateracts, joint implants arthritis victims'' without research.
carroll joined dozen patients illnesses yet cure, including diabetics, cancer survivors two children congenital heart defects.
two parents also spoke rally, contending children would alive weren't medical progress made animal testing.
member concerned citizens ethical research, group opposed animal testing, said outraged called distortion issue.
``they paint picture trying say animal rights activists hurting medical progress,'' said steve davis.
``just something done past, legal, doesn't mean it's right.''
concerned citizens group targeted five scientists recent weeks, pressuring discontinue research.
group contends northwestern researchers starve monkeys stick electrodes needles cats' eyes.
researchers counter animals anesthetized feel pain.
fiscal ruse authorities hoped would help track ramon salcido, police persuaded wells fargo bank extend unlimited credit accused mass killer.
automatic teller machines effectively deputized help catch man accused killing wife, two daughters, mother-in-law two daughters, winery co-worker.
salcido fled mexico, captured deported back california late thursday.
salcido reported run bank funds last week cocaine-and-alcohol binge friends said preceded slaughter.
sonoma county sheriff's office arranged bank track salcido transactions made automatic teller (atm) card instructed bank tellers credit line wide open, sheriff dick michaelsen said wells fargo spokeswoman lisa hoogerwef said bank gladly cooperated authorities, adding salcido tried use automatic teller card least wells fargo branch san rafael friday 9:24 a.m., possibly later san francisco heading mexico.
investigators said killings occurred day 7 a.m. 10 a.m. salcido also bought clothes bank card ross dress less store san rafael friday morning.
``the debate (whether not) give open credit.
... worried safety tellers.''
said hoogerwef.
``we want anything set off,'' agreed ron renfro, bank's security manager.
renfro said word crimes spread, became credible salcido would chance going bank might recognized would try use atm get cash.
michaelsen said bank's cooperation, department able bypass court request permission tap salcido's account.
sheriff said bank cooperated ``hot pursuit'' ``lives danger.''
``i proud.
think excellent job,'' said michaelsen.
``it excellent police work.
(his arrest) fluke.''
three men, two dressed women, fled sydney bank friday swindle attempt failed three captured, one scene two following car chase, police reported.
said detective struck injured suspects' mercedes chase.
officials said two suspects charged attempted murder third driving dangerous manner.
three, identified, jailed pending court hearing.
police gave account: three men attempted carry credit-card fraud advance bank downtown sydney shortly 3 p.m.
police responded alarm bank one man sprayed officers mace overpowered.
two accomplices, wearing women's clothes, fled limousine led police cruisers chase central sydney, colliding seven cars allegedly hitting detective stopped nearby darlinghurst.
detective reported satisfactory condition sydney hospital.
friendly investors could help northwest airlines defend hostile takeover bid carrier's 5,000 pilots quickly agree contract, according management letter made public friday.
``frankly, alternatives available us friendly investors,'' chairman steven rothmeier said letter, sent pilots nation's fourth-largest airline thursday.
``the absence pilot contract keeps patient money away,'' letter said.
``but nothing scare away highly leveraged money investors don't really care can't make airline work, break up.''
letter released media stock northwest parent nwa inc. closed $102.50 new york stock exchange, $3.75 thursday's close.
stock price reflects belief wall street bid higher billionaire marvin davis' current $2.7 billion, $90-a-share, hostile tender offer.
calls twin cities headquarters air line pilots association went unanswered friday night.
pilots working two separate contracts since northwest acquired republic airlines fall 1986.
one key sticking points negotiations merging airlines' seniority lists.
contracts expired.
``we prepared willing negotiate around clock reach agreement,'' rothmeier wrote.
``we fluid situation change, quite literally, hour hour.''
according testimony lawsuit filed northwest davis, representatives davis contact labor leaders northwest, including pilots union.
judge issued temporary restraining order prohibiting davis ``disrupting'' contract talks, order forbid ``nondisruptive'' communication.
davis aides said want establish ``open dialogue'' pilots.
davis said intend break airline selling strategic assets pay takeover debt.
president bush reportedly planning recommend mix single-warhead midgetman multiple warhead mx missiles budget decision determine future nation's nuclear arsenal.
white house source, declined identified, said friday bush's decision ``expected kind mix rail garrison mx midgetman, final mix determined.''
decision represents setback defense secretary dick cheney, reportedly favored deploying one mobile missile, 10-warhead mx.
bush supposed make final decision weekend inform cheney.
cheney urged bush remove nation's 50 mx missiles concrete silos put railroad cars shuttled around country _ option known rail garrison mx.
reportedly wanted cut funding truck-mobile midgetman.
first half fiscal 1989 ended budget deficit running 7.4 percent ahead last year's, according government's latest report financial situation.
first six months 1989 fiscal year, began oct. 1, budget deficit totaled $128.43 billion, $119.61 billion shortfall posted first six months last year, treasury department said friday.
bush administration estimating year's deficit total $163.3 billion, 5.3 percent $155.1 billion shortfall posted fiscal 1988.
gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law, year's deficit supposed exceed $146 billion.
administration congressional leaders last week unveiled compromise plan designed reduce deficit next fiscal year $99.4 billion, within $100 billion target fiscal 1990 established gramm-rudman.
judge said jury's passion led give rock hudson's lover excessive $21.7 million landmark aids lawsuit, slashed award $5.5 million.
``it's still big award,'' said marc christian, 35, reached telephone friday superior court judge bruce geernaert's decision.
christian sued late actor's estate contending hudson told christian deadly contagious disease.
trial, christian, former bartender, testified sometimes lurid detail continued sex unwittingly hudson months actor diagnosed aids.
wave rioting swept jordan ended era remarkable calm kingdom exposed troubling cracks foundation strategic arab country.
year steady economic deterioration, relatively modest price increases imposed april 16 snapped patience many jordanians.
``it straw broke camel's back,'' said teacher southern city kerak, one flashpoints.
like people tense cities, refused quoted name.
army moved quickly contain rioting, economic woes certain worsen jordan, key player middle east peace efforts.
communist rebels claimed responsibility saturday killing u.s. army colonel advised country's military, officials fearing attacks bolstered security u.s. forces.
philippine troops near six u.s. military installations country reinforced put maximum alert immediately col. james ``nick'' rowe slain friday, according gen. renato de villa, philippine army's chief staff.
rowe's filipino driver wounded.
communist assassins stolen car sprayed rowe's vehicle bullets way work suburban quezon city.
killers escaped.
51-year-old rowe, prisoner war vietnam, served chief ground forces division joint u.s.-military advisory group, provides training logistical support philippine military.
federal jury weighed guilt innocence oliver l. north part second day saturday, took rest weekend former presidential aide awaited fate 12 felony counts stemming role iran-contra affair.
nine women three men, guided deliberations 95-page set instructions district judge gerhard a. gesell, arrived bright early saturday resume work 18-by-12 room sealed second floor u.s.
courthouse.
clues progress time quit 12:10 p.m. return downtown hotel relax, constant supervision u.s. marshals, resuming work monday.
jurors, asked judge begin 9:30 morning, driven van courthouse 8:20 a.m. started work 8:45.
house speaker jim wright's intervention federal s&amp;l regulators behalf texas businessmen strictly violate ethical standards, according house ethics committee, report provides inside peek truly hard-ball politics played nation's capital.
wright, according report ethics panel's general counsel, put ``hold'' bill late 1986 provide regulators $15 billion special fees industry close critically insolvent savings loan institutions, many texas.
period, wright meeting officials federal home loan bank board, regulates thrift industry, behalf four texas businessmen _ two democratic party fund-raisers _ deeply embroiled s&amp;l crisis.
despite split votes ethics committee clearing wright specific violations house rules meetings, special counsel richard phelan concluded wright exercised ``undue influence'' two cases trying get two bank board's toughest regulators fired.
soviet defense spending rose 3 percent last year, despite president mikhail s. gorbachev's promises cut military budget, according intelligence report released saturday.
study, prepared jointly cia pentagon's defense intelligence agency, also said gorbachev laying groundwork proposed 14.2 percent cut defense spending.
study said chopping military spending sharply would require soviets reduce armed forces 500,000-troop reduction announced gorbachev last december, meaning cutbacks soviet military.
newly declassified report painted grim overall picture soviet economy.
said gorbachev forced slow pace economic reforms delay key steps allowing market set wholesale retail prices.
san quentin prison, century one toughest places nation time, emptied virtually hardened criminals.
1,750 them, half population 137-year-old fortress held charles manson sirhan sirhan, sent new prisons throughout california part $5 billion prison expansion.
place minimum- medium-security prisoners, including many live trailers outside prison walls san quentin's fenced-in grounds little contact higher-risk inmates inside.
california's death row remains 252 prisoners, men, facing execution cyanide gas.
aside them, ``we lost almost hard-core (inmates),'' said prison spokesman cal white, unhappily.
many company bosses duck investor salvos annual meetings, warren buffett likely bask shareholder adulation he's enriched 24th year.
buffett, one world's wealthiest people, chairman berkshire hathaway inc., $6 billion conglomerate interests include encyclopedia, homespun candy maker, omaha furniture mart, giant insurance company investments coca cola co., capital cities abc inc., washington post co. salomon brothers inc., among others.
folksy, charming unconventional, 57-year-old investor wows shareholders stock analysts pithy annual report writes himself, filled insights considers good bad business economy general.
it's earned nickname, ``oracle omaha.''
year, buffett began report 21-page letter shareholders, telling stock market lousy, corporate taxes higher takeover business getting expensive.
nonetheless, wrote, berkshire's management team gained $569 million net worth 1988, contributing average net worth gain 23 percent last 24 years.
also proclaimed berkshire made great investment borsheim's, flourishing omaha jewelry business.
``we continue concentrate investments companies try understand well,'' buffett wrote.
``there handful businesses strong long-term convictions.
therefore, find business, want participate meaningful way.
agree mae west: `too much good thing wonderful.'''
buffett's report prelude berkshire hathaway's annual meeting, he's holding monday omaha, company's headquarters.
plans make shareholders feel like they're family reunion.
``after meeting several buses available take visit mrs. b nebraska furniture mart ike friedman borsheim's,'' buffett wrote shareholders.
``be prepared bargains.''
biggest bargain berkshire hathaway shareholders ever got buying company's stock, book value $20 share mid 1960s, buffett acquired massachusetts cloth milling concern $10 million assets.
book value nearly $3,000 share trades new york stock exchange nearly $5,900 share.
berkshire hathaway considered gem takeover strategist t. boone pickens ranked last month among top 20 1,000 big companies called commitment shareholders.
buffett's annual report widely followed usa today said recently ``runs good chance one anyone actually reads wall street.''
verne mckenzie, berkshire hathaway's chief financial officer, said company besieged requests annual report shareholders flock like pilgrims annual meeting.
``people travel far reaches country world,'' said.
richard a. lewis, chairman corporate annual reports inc., professional annual report publishing concern, gave high marks buffett's yearly prognostications shareholders, largely showed honest direct fellow owners company.
``buffett one four five richest men america,'' lewis said.
``when speaks, people listen.
uses report say wants say.
uses report underscore investment principles keys success.''
nonetheless, buffett universally admired.
sid cato, publisher monthly newsletter annual reports based waukesha, wis., ranked berkshire hathaway's one 10 worst last year, largely called buffett's inflated ego.
``i wrote, `mr. buffett, you're starting get nerves already, enough already,'' cato said.
asked he'd seen year's annual report, cato said, ``no, seen fit send copy.''
commodity price trends past week: grain soybean futures advanced second consecutive week chicago board trade.
wheat delivery may settled friday $4.14{ bushel, $4.12} week earlier; may corn rose $2.75\ bushel $2.70}; may oats rallied $2.02{ bushel $1.91}; may soybeans rose $7.60 bushel $7.33.
live cattle futures prices rose livestock meat futures retreated chicago mercantile exchange.
june live cattle rose 71.42 cents pound 71.10 cents; may feeder cattle dipped 76.17 cents pound 76.27 cents; june hogs slipped 45.60 cents pound 46.22 cents; july frozen pork bellies dropped 31.30 cents pound 33.30 cents.
gold silver futures prices fell slightly new york's commodity exchange.
june gold dropped $388.20 troy ounce $389.80; may silver fell $5.765 troy ounce $5.825.
energy futures rose sharply second straight week new york mercantile exchange.
west texas intermediate crude oil delivery june settled friday $21.32 barrel compared $19.86 previous week; may heating oil rose 53.63 cents gallon 52.91 cents; may unleaded gasoline went 74.16 cents gallon 70.02 cents.
